As humans we have been blessed to carry forward the creation of the world, of the universe. There is no other species which has pushed so far beyond the most important challenge of surviving into the deep realms of wonder and abstraction of phenomena. In a sense the human species as a whole has taken on a burden greater than anything else with the responsibility and lifespans beyond the wildest imaginations of other beings. The way in which human beings see the world; the abstracted concepts, understanding of the complex, the understandings of themselves seems to be beyond the plan for any species but is displayed every moment by every human regardless of our abstracted concept of achievement. 	Beyond the greatness that is woven into our species as a whole each one of us has the choice to take those traits which have made the human race thrive and amplify them, going farther and deeper than any other being before. The great beauty of this is the lack of necessity to follow such a path, because even the human who never wonders, never tries, or never thinks more than the minimum level set by society will live a life more complex than any other earthly counterpart species. This is what has made everything we call our world possible, a species whom for the most part has transcended the need to constantly think about survival leaving it to a tranquil state in which thoughts beyond food and shelter can take shape. 	This grand endowment from God, the universe itself, is something we must not take for granted as we begin to see the limitless potential of what we may do in our long lifetime. With the burden of stewardship for our world we often feel overwhelmed, selflessly not stopping to wonder why our genial neighbors never tried to push the bounds and take up some of this burden themselves. But with this burden comes great reward in the ability to experience the beauty of the world in full, to reflect, and to proactively shape what our next experience may be. 	There are but some who decide to not just carry the burden of the world, but the burden of the human race in order to provide those experiences which everyone may live for. This journey starts with wondering more, pushing the bounds of learning, of understanding further than anyone before, and working with the ultimate belief and resolve that those beautiful human thoughts can simply be transmuted to reality. Through the greater need to know and the resolve to not rest until it is known, these select few cultivate a mind in which the ideas they will one day bring to life are beyond the current reality. 	The type of character to take on such a challenge is one whom has a strange inside need to live beyond the current reality. This creates a constant urge to see the explosion of their resolved wonders culminate into that which has not yet existed in the world of those around them. The birthing, the creation of these ideas is the place where they come to find their ultimate joy, a transcended human state in which the bounds of reality are constantly being pushed. For them the art of any endeavor is in the act of creating. In this act they are alone, rather in solitude, even when constantly in a crowd. The reality beyond which they constantly crave becomes part of their own, but is void in the reality happening around them. In this sense they are on a desolate island, alone with their new understandings, their creations, their art. 	The most damning moment of the journey for these most sensitive minds is the moment their creation, their personal transcended reality, is complete and shared with the world. In this moment it becomes art to the world around, pushing the norm of the current reality of the human race. No matter how much it may change the world, how much ‘achievement’ is praised to its creator, how beautiful it truly is; the creator is more lost, more empty than ever.  For their motivation was never the fame and rewards, but was the feeling of understanding something the first time, living beyond the reality which they have now created, the molding of the world to their own, and the over all transcendence of mediocrity. 	This is the burden they have chosen to bear, fostering a mind so sensitive as to see beyond while throwing them into a fragile state in which anything, no matter the magnitude, means something. The constant wonder and tedious creation has brought them understanding of everything in the world around them. They will see a multitude of processes where others see none and this can bring forth a life of anxiety and fear. For they see how much danger exists around us at all times, something that human counterparts let go, and any other species never even pondered. In this sense the only path to the peace we may see in a song bird or the like, is to abolish all understanding of the world, a propositions with devastating tradeoffs. Add upon this the realization that whatever urged them to venture so far into the depths of understanding has now allowed them to be one of the few who may continue the great success of their race, and the internal necessity to push the bounds in any moment become a need more than a desire. Every moment they are not moving towards using their gifts to shape a better reality, they feel as if their breath is cut off and everything is crashing down around them. 	But this burden and the feeling of emptiness after some of the greatest achievements, is what moves the human race and the world forward more than ever. For the creator has set on the journey to push the bounds of reality in a constant run from mediocrity. They feel as if mediocrity is at the heels at all times even when they are completely out of sight of their greatest fear. This is more true than ever after handing their greatest achievements to the world. In this moment everything which was once new and grand is now just the new normal. For a moment the emptiness will take over once more, but the quick realization that they must do something even greater in the next moment spurs them back into wonder. The next goal becomes the need to go deeper and further than they ever have on whatever crosses their mind next. As this oscillation of excitement of creation, and emptiness of release continues the world evolves around them with their soul engraved in the new realities for eternity. The torturous cycle of compounding creations, achievements, by a great few is what has caused our species and our lives to go beyond what seems to be our limits. 	Altogether the life of these beings is termed as ‘genius’. The highest echelon of our abstracted concept of intelligence, not just about our species but for all. At the core these lives are simply driven by question, wonders, and the resolve and belief that they can and will be answered, not just for themselves but for the world at large. As time rages onward more of these beings will continue to drive our realities, to shape our world with these simple principles. When searching for the definition to progress we may find expanding intelligence to be key, and to define intelligence we may simply deem it the will and ability to answer one’s questions for one’s self.When one goes far, fast, a multitude of emotions may overcome even the most level minded individual. The term “too” is omitted from before the word “far” because the context of far is meant to be in building upon one’s self which has no bounds to how far we can or should go. Any act of wonder turned into a new accumulation of knowledge, or desire to do turned into a newly learned skill set builds upon one’s self and one should never limit how much of either may be achieved at any time. The most inspiring instances of this development of self often occurs with such speed and tenacity that when looking back or looking upon from the outside its seems as if the new version of one’s self had suddenly appears out of nowhere. This case of building knowledge and skills at such a pace that everyone including the beholder are left in bewilderment is a grand blessing which carries with it a sense of meaning for this person in their new endeavor, the notion that they were meant for this life. In the moments of these developments, though all positive, the beholder may be left with a flurry of emotions. It now seems that instead of just proving their abilities to the world, they must now even prove them to their own self. The strong feeling to constantly prove to oneself that these rapid positive changes are in fact real, can drive even larger developments to compound in lieu of whatever activities are taken, but also present one of the most difficult challenges. The mind against the mind. In the scheme of things it seems as if conditions must have been just right to develop a skill or learn something so quickly, and this can cause even the most menial of outside disturbances to ripple the fear of the ride coming to a abrupt halt through such a powerful mind. This cycle seems to continue as the beholder sits in disbelief that they can do the things they can, find a way to prove to themselves this is not a temporary ride, and find themselves in the beginning once more with an even greater set of abilities. Though the truth is that in time many of these abilities become believable to the beholder, and thus less malleable to the theoretical mind; in reality even in this moment of new these coveted abilities have already taken root. The process of testing that they are in fact part of the self, while turbulent, is what allows these roots to blossom into a grand new self. In time the fear of losing these nearly permanent pieces of the self will subside into normal, giving clarity to find the next. In the process of this all, the powerful mind is answering only to itself and the lofty goals set to continuously prove that the priori deemed impossible is in fact now the new reality. The material and mental work done to fulfill these goals often far outweighs the goals set by society, thus leading to a new level of intellectual status in which the world believes this mind has taken on its problems in charity. The truth is that cauldron of both selfishness and selflessness have boiled together to fulfill ones internal reward system while simply complementing the world in a positive manner. Though nobody may ever know that the incredible work they see coming from this blessed mind is in fact mainly working to fulfill internal goals of proving ones self to ones self, they must know that what they see is only a side effect of the arduous process. In all hopes this mind will always selfishly need to prove its non-believing self of the next level of greatness it has amassed, because this is what provides the world with selflessly conquered challenges in the form of the beautiful ways which this sensitive mind chooses to prove what has been tirelessly built onto the self is there to stay, forever holding the illusion that it may be quick to leave……As part of the dynamic minds we have accrued over the centuries through the evolution of the human race, we have achieved the grand ability to amplify the meaning as well as the effects of everything around us. This is ceded in every accomplishment, insight, and forward push as well as those things in our reality that move in the opposite direction; our anxieties, egos, and planned hostilities. All together this can be summarized as a great ability to create distorted realities for ourselves in the form of our views that may eventually transmute into the general reality of the population. Amongst these distortions which often only move to the general population through a negative medium is that of bias. The bias which warps our reality to the point that it becomes truth to us alone, is a pure example of the minds ability to amplify the things in life so far as to shape ones beliefs into something void of possibilities. Much of the result of bias is selfish acts and beliefs which lead us to make choices outside the bounds of such reality but our own. These often occur due to our inherent nearsightedness in the effects of our actions as well as others on the world around us. It is no surprise that the earth was believed to be the center of the universe before Copernicus, a pure result of the power of our own bias. And as we move closer to the universe of a single person, even today many of us feel as if space and time distorts around us specifically as we define ourselves as the center of general reality. This of course, is a bias which may be deemed as selfish in many cases, sometimes outwardly but more often than not kept within us only as a restraint to our full potential. A result of this which is often overlooked though prevalent in almost all of minds is the notion of Luck. This term luck is the notion that many of our successes throughout our days is brought on by pure chance with a hint of correct placement. Many spend their days envying the seeming “luck” that other have achieved while pounding the ground begging for the illusion of chance to show itself to them. Luck is nothing more than a bias in which we see the world as if it warped around us with a new trajectory in our favor. This is no more than another selfish, nearsighted illusion our powerful minds have created before us. We very quickly forget in the respective scenarios that there is another human being often on the other side of our luck. As we find our win and fortunes provided by an opportunity laid before us, did this action happen purely for us? Though our selfish mind tells us yes, the truth tells that the being on the other end is living in their own reality in which this action was no more than a decision they made based on a notion they deemed valid. When this statement is analyzed, much of the bias which we hold may begin to fade. For, the realization that the connection of events which bear benefit to one or more individual is simply an action taken by someone who holds their own bias of a self-centered universe, reveals the notion that it is much more a system of decisions of individuals with valid rewards set by society which determines our fate. When we begin to recognize that there is a person with similar thoughts and notions as us on the other end of the “luck” we hope for, a new approach to find our fortunes may be taken. We can begin to value the people whom we bring into our lives in combination with the abilities we build into ourselves. For, the result will be that as we are able to fulfill needs these carefully selected individuals in their own minds may have needs that they need filled for their own reasons alone. Suddenly the combination occurs in proximity and both sides are able to fulfill their desired rewards. Many would call this luck on either part without looking into it, but in truth it is simply a perfectly designed system, we call reality, continuing on with its day to day operations by flawlessly connecting need to ability, thus providing the respective rewards to us to keep us striving for more. Together this brings the notion that eliminating the illusion of luck from our minds will allow us to see where we may fit and build our selves to fit better in the general reality. In doing this the universe will always look for the most efficient way, through us and others, to move forward. Equipped with the right tools, low bias, and the resolve to answer to the laid in front of us, there is no doubt we may ourselves create the luck which we once hoped for.The realization of the complexity which lies in the overall upward sloping curve of progress brings with it vast expanses of insights to take advantage of. There are two examples which seem to exemplify the duality of experience which can be derived from enlarging and  decreasing the view of one progress through life.We often find ourselves judging our own precise moves through life as either positive or negative in the scheme of our progress. Though this we begin to see the connection which each preceding event has to the next moment in which with a positive attitude is more often than not a better place. Through this mindset we may often find ourselves seeing momentary distress or anxiety due to events which we deem mistakes or unfortunate. These are the times when we have enlarged our current moment of the curve so far that the volatility of ups and downs seems to mask the overall upward slope. After deep analysis of this event or moment we always seem to prevail either getting over the event or recognizing the benefit it truly brought with it. After these moment the realization can be made that when zooming back out the positive slope was never truly in jeopardy, we were simply following the correct iterations of experience to move us forward. This is a thought process that can act as a cure for even the most anxious experiences as it proves to the troubled mind that regardless of every worry we are almost always a better version of our selves the next day, thus rendering the worry in that moment meaningless in the overall pattern of life. On the contrary the opposite tends to happen when we observe others and their achievements. In this case we tend to ignore the enlarged sections of their curves, simply telling ourselves that they must have been lucky or simply worked hard. For some reason we are doing the opposite of what we do to ourselves in this case. Instead of looking to far into the moment as to pull out worries, we are looking from to far a distance to truly observe where the others progress really came from. The truth is that they likely their enlarged moments display almost identical events to that of your own and especially that of others who have lived similar lives. When the day to day struggles and triumphs are ignored in other people lives we are restricting ourselves from incredibly important information that can help us grow. Across nature we see systems and patterns replicated across everything. This follows the laws of self-similarity which have been attributed to the discovery of almost everything we call life today. In simple terms this means that processes tend to be the same, yielding the same results across all domains. Although unprovable unless every single movement from birth has been track, this is likely true of our life experiences. People who achieve the same levels overall likely have had nearly identical patterns of events when their curves are expanded to the microscopic level. As a thought, it may be observed that both Steve Jobs and Henry Ford spilled a nearly identical number of drinks when their lives are observed to that level of detail. This helps demonstrate the power of every single event that happens in a day or even a second in our lives, all tying into the overall outcome. In conclusion, the duality of paradigm of the Chaos in the Curve is that when we trade the way we look at our own experience for how we view others achievements from time to time we will find incredible insight while keeping our mind in harmony with our own progress. It is as simple as taking a step back from our own experience, recognizing the overall progress while taking the time to learn the details of the everyday life of those we admire or wish for. I believe there is a word for this and this is empathy… “You don’t have to be an athlete to be an athlete!” I proudly proclaimed as our opponents fell to the ground on the other side of the rope. What had just occurred may have meant nothing to the world but to the proud and slightly intoxicated minds of my team and myself it meant everything in this moment. It was the year of 2015 and after a day of competitions between fraternities, clubs, and athletic teams; the fraternity team I was part of had reigned victorious above all in the tug-of-rope competition. It is important to note that the member of my team were far from the ideal image of the frat jocks on campus. A better description of us would have been an imaginative point on a line equidistant from a band of ragamuffin misfits and the average college male. This is a key point in this story given whom we had defeated in the tournament to achieve our victory. Our opponents during the course of play had included some of more “athletic” fraternities along with actual athletic teams such as the lacrosse and soccer team. Above all the most important opponent was our final opponent; the Rugby Team… This group of testosterone fueled men was just as you imagined as you read the last three words of the prior sentence: a meat and potatoes fed, no-nonsense group of tough boys seemingly always up for any display of strength which come their way. As the final match between my physically mediocre group of friends and the videogame equivalent of a “final level boss” began to become a reality, some of the previous hope seemed to disappear from my teammates as we walked toward our seemingly inevitable defeat. Luckily the fellow who had decided to act as the leader in these sorts of activities was able to transfer his “can’t lose” attitude to the team and a spark of hope suddenly encapsulated all of us for a moment. As we entered the battlefield all of our mindsets seemed to shift away from viewing them as The Rugby Team towards a view of our inevitable next set of defeated opponents. What would happen next was the definition of magic to our youthful minds and to this day still provides me with an incredible feeling of excitement. After a grueling ~30 seconds of digging our feet into the hard mid-November ground, we felt a jolt in our direction as the opponent lost their ground and fell down sending us to victory. In this victory, attributed to our collective mindsets, for a showdown of purely athletic capabilities the “athletes” had fallen to the “non-athletes” (NARPs as the college athletes call us “non-athletic regular people”). The next statement, seen at the beginning, that I would make would shape the way I began to look at the world from this point onward, although just an excitement and college-beverage driven statement meant to further excite my team in this moment. In this naïve, youthful moment I made a realization locally to this match, which later on would be expanded to everything I pursued. This was the fact that because we lacked the title and prestige of our opponent meant nothing in terms of our compared abilities to achieve anything. Entering the match our ambitions were clouded by seeing the title athletes and thinking we could never reach their abilities, but in the moment we saw them as just another group of human beings in a battle of might vs might we were able to tip this scale and soar to achieve our desired positions. In that moment we proved we could be “athletes” although we lacked the official title from our society.This thought of “you don’t have to be an athlete to be and athlete” would percolate in my mind as I grew out of my young mind and real ambitions took hold. Through following years of thought I had been able to expand this local thought to a global generalized mindset in which the word athlete could be replaced with any title myself or anyone desired. This began to lead me on great quests for mastery of new subjects and skills, classically taught or gained through formal educational programs. The secret behind these personal breakthroughs was and has always been the understanding that if enough attention is given to anything you would like to be or do, it can and will be done. This is possible in my thoughts mainly due to the realization that no other human possesses any true extra ability, only different mindsets and motivations which can surely be mirrored in my own life if that is what I want to do or be. It was through this continual sense of hope that I will achieve what I put my mind through that I was able to quickly scale to the heights of knowledge and understanding of others who held the formal titles in the fields in which my endeavors included. For me the statement I made as a naïve college sophomore would warp into things such as “you don’t have to be a computer scientist to be a computer scientist” and “you don’t have doctorate knowledge of Artificial Intelligence to have doctorate knowledge of Artificial Intelligence”. These were just a couple of the examples of personal quests for knowledge that I have accomplished which have defined me most today. To further expand this point with a more straightforward example what this statement means to me, analyzing and recalling the pursuits of knowledge in the previous two statements is always inspiring to me. In both examples I had a clear desire to achieve the knowledge of a master but never had the opportunity to gain the titles in a formal fashion. When the desire to understand computer science and AI came into my life I began a fully personal quest to accomplish what was necessary to master the topics. I understood from the beginning that foregoing any sort of formal education system to learn these topics would require the utmost focus and attention to every detail that came my way. In the coming months through a mixture of belief and disciplined dedication to mastery I would teach myself to understand these topics at the level of those who hold the titles which I set out for. Finally, in this moment I was a scientist with a nearly complete knowledge of computers, but still lacked the title of Bachelor of Science in Computer Science. At the same time, I had achieved levels of understanding and more importantly applications of Artificial Intelligence of that of a PhD student, but again had not taken a normal route of actually gaining the knowledge in a doctorate program. The most difficult part of these endeavors would come with the fact that although I lacked the titles, I did have the same level of knowledge. Most of the time in our society the lack of these titles dictates if one is worthy of a job or opportunity regardless of the knowledge they truly hold. At this point I was hungry for the chance to use my new skills to change the world, but found it very difficult to find a medium to do so. I realized that to get anyone to notice my knowledge in lieu of my lack of title I would need to go above and beyond that of the peers of the industry I hoped to join. To do so I would give every waking moment to work on personal project which I could showcase, publish article, and even spend a summer working with a start-up who was willing to recognize my knowledge for what it really was. By the time that a large firm in the technology industry was willing to give me a chance, this journey had allowed me to gain skills far beyond that of the entry level position I would later take on. Due to this, I excelled and provided tremendous value to the company which I worked for. To this day I do not believe they truly know what my “title” was when I was hired, they instead looked deeper for the skills they truly needed. In the end of this story both the company and myself have benefitted greatly from both deciding to make the leap.The moral of the story above is that many times those who lack formal titles, but still have all of the same knowledge bring with them something more. What they bring with them is all of the extra work which they had to do to get to where they are, along with the fact that every step they took was out of desire rather than by outside force as in some formal settings. The hard work and desire are traits that remain with them as they enter your company or your life, traits which bring as much or more value than the knowledge for the position they will be in. This statement is not meant what so ever to downgrade the meaning behind a formal degree or achievement of a title. Incredible effort and hard work occurs in these programs as well, and many participants share the same desire and extra hard work as do those on the outside. The fact of the matter is that the person’s mindset regardless of their opportunity to participate in a formal program is what will define them. This gives everyone who ever needs to select individuals to join their work or their life the important insight to look inside of everyone they may be considering, because they may be surprised what they have overlooked simply due to the lack of a formal title. When this mindset is followed there will be a near guarantee that the people allowed into their job or their life will bring with them incredibly unique points of view and change the courses of everything. Altogether the simple thought that is needed to achieve anything and connect with incredible people for the rest of your life is simply:A fire was blazing within my eyes as I watched the ball drop as the clocks struck midnight bringing forth the new year of 2018. I was entering a new year which held unimaginable opportunities and accomplishments with a sober mind, a feeling I had never known and something seldom experienced by adults across the world. Though this may sound quite opposite for what many desire on questionably the most exciting night in superposition of prior and preceding years, the explosion of emotion which come when looking back at the happenings during our last rotation around the sun and the opportunities of our next trip around the galaxy is nothing short of pure ecstasy. At this time for myself I had just started on a new journey to define myself, to master things, and to open my mind to just about anything with a hint of value to myself and those around me. The inspiration that had begun to flow in a continuous stream seemed to transform into a powerful current as I observed the year move into the year which to this point would be considered the most incredible year of my life. With a smile on my face and determination in my eyes a plan for the next 365 days to truly define myself seemed to sit in the palm of my hands, it was time to get to work. As 2017 had come to a close I had been diligently working to master computer programming through pure self-taught sessions of ultimate focus and belief, some very important traits which had recently began to show themselves. By this New Year’s Eve I had completed my initial, unstructured learning of one language and wanted to find what I may do with this new ability to create nearly any logical thought that may come to mind. In the last days of 2017 I had laid out two possible routes, Artificial Intelligence or block chain, and picked the prior to begin to study in hopes of applying my new knowledge. The first days of the new year would bring with them a flurry of intense thought as I tore through the book I had chosen about Machine Learning. I found myself iterating the concepts which I had a burning desire to learn, through my head until they finally clicked, often staring into space or sitting on a workout machine thinking for 5 mins or more. This process was something that I had found very important for mastering these tricky concepts in such a short time, because in reality I was spending most of my time “studying” them in my mind. This led to a rapid increase in understanding in of both computer science and Machine Learning in a matter of days. The first accomplishment which seemed major at the time, while seemingly trivial to me now, came as a result of many recent endeavors coming together at once. My Father had just completed building a house and was interested in what may be the most lucrative price. The connection between this and the topics covered in my machine learning endeavors helped to give me the thought of finding a way to test my new knowledge. I had recently reluctantly retaken a statics physics course for my engineering major, which during the second time around would become one of my favorite and most important classes(I had previously failed the class due to an instructor who could not inspire the beauty of the subject in me or the other 25% of the class which failed). The concept of solving multivariate systems of square equations had been utilized and I felt I understood it quite well. Noting the numeric features of every house as well as the readily available reality sales information I quickly imagined how by solving for weights on each numeric feature a linear equation could be created to model the prices of the houses which were comparable. The problem arose that accuracy would increase with number of houses but in my mathematically naïve mind I could only solve equal features with number of training examples(ie 5 features, 5 house system). With my brief study of machine learning I had read many approaches which iterated through the data using a common equation as well as genetic algorithms which combine equations. With this in mind I created an algorithm which I have yet to see used, but probably should be used either. I would solve square systems for every n number of examples of features and average the variable of the all the systems at the end. Though this is not even close to a good algorithm it surprisingly worked and quite accurately predicted sale prices of validation homes. This would inspire me to keep learning how to improve the system and reveled the intuition I had for machine learning even before I truly learned how it worked. As of a month December 2018 the house in question sold within 5% of the predicted value by my archaic hacked together algorithm. I continued to try different datasets I could find on the internet with my prized possession at the time, some yielding viable results others failing badly. With a drive to move forward every day I began to solidify my understanding of the firmly established approaches to machine learning. Throughout the month of January my mind was on a constant loop of thoughts of neural networks running through my head until every aspect I could find clicked. At this point I had moved beyond a simple book and into academic papers and whatever else I could find to solidify every wonder that came to my mind. Soon enough it was time to write a program to more accurately predict the home prices I had momentarily conquered with a more formidable approach. As I struggled trying to write a neural network algorithm from scratch in Java I soon realized that this was not even close to the optimal solution as the easier, more mathematical, language python had tools which did what I was attempting in one line. I packed up my bags with the important knowledge I gained in trying to model complex systems from scratch and started my next chapter to master python and all of its essences. Both the knowledge I gained trying to understand these systems from scratch and the decision to give up some pride and take the “easier” route would prove to be more important than I ever knew.  My approach to learning this new language was much more unconventional than my previous experience with Java. I had started to look into the intricate libraries which are used for machine learning prior to beginning my formal learning of python, this had allowed me to see the “translations” of what I had already conquered in java. Eager to begin using the powerful mathematical features of python I immediately re wrote my house pricing algorithm in python. This process, which took about 3 days, forced me to to journey into the unknown at a pace that would not be deemed safe on any other journey. At almost every new feature I found my self googling and sifting through forums finding answers to almost every query thanks to the incredible state of information available in the time I was blessed to live in. I had concurrently begun a formal online python course, which I would never finish as I mastered my new tool at hyper speeds thanks to google and the voice in my head telling me to keep going. Due to the ease of use, python brings forth more opportunity to exercise mathematical algorithms and attempt new ideas more fluidly. In short, languages like Java and C++ often leave the strongest programmers thinking “How do I write the code to do this”, whereas python allows for simple readable code that leaves even novice programmers thinking “What else can I make this computer do?” Given this nature, I learned two valuable lessons that would guide me through the duration of the year: with enough thought any logical problem can be solved, and if something isn’t working there is always a logical reason why. I would sometimes find myself thinking of something I wanted my code to do, and for a moment think it was impossible. Given the immense examples from google and the lessons above I would soon realize that problems such as these could be solved in some way, I just had to find it and given that some other human had done similar there was not a reason why I could not do the same. Throughout January I would continue to walk through Machine Learning tutorials continuously, consequently beginning to naturally master this new language. One thing I would get frustrated with was the way which some of the python libraries would do complex things for you, which may have been fun to solve. With this in mind I made sure to promise myself I would not move to the next line of code until I understood exactly what the prior did, no matter how abstracted it was. This led to an immense amount of knowledge to accumulate in a very short amount of time, because this ease is something that allows most people to move on without understanding what they really did. When I had finally understood the language and the respective machine learning libraries, while holding a partial understanding of the machine learning math, I now started to put it to practice by trying the housing problem and other data sets I had worked on before. To no surprise these more formal methods yielded much more satisfying results leaving me to look back on my past prized invention as now a mere stepping stone. Moving into February I became more and more entranced in the “magic” that such a simple (to me, now) concept could bring to such a range of problems. During this time, I found a website with relevant challenges, kaggle.com, which would allow me to start to apply this to something with some actual meaning. I would start with the simplest challenges such as predicting Titanic survival based on demographic data sets, with a continuous promise to try to bring a fresh approach and copy nothing. This would bring forth more rapid learning of AI and the nuances of data science with python, such as preprocessing and feature engineering. Concurrently I was delving deeper into machine learning concepts such as Convolutional Neural Networks for image recognition and time series analysis.  Throughout February I began to create successful implementations of CNNs(see above) for image recognition, which was finally something I could see the algorithm doing with my own eyes. This pushed me to create my first “real” program which I named Gen Net. Quite simply program could take a list of objects, scrape google images for images for each category and create a CNN which could classify those categories. This development was a very exciting time for me as I had begun to drift away from the social scene of college life into nights on end of innovating and learning. While my friend were confused an somewhat off put by my seeming disappearance and quitting of drinking alcohol, when we would chat I always felt they respected my pursuits. When this program was complete I can admit I saw it as much more than it truly was. I imagined it could change how object recognition in industrial and consumer situations worked, with a bias against the fact that much more in depth technologies were being used. Though not as great as I thought the excitement was warranted given I had written my first line of code one and a half months ago and started working with AI/ML weeks ago. With this excitement I sent the idea to the Michigan State Innovation Center/Hatch of which I was a part of from my past T-shirt companies. I first asked them if they had any thoughts of where this could lead and offered my support to any other companies interested in AI, knowing there was not much similar knowledge at MSU, an offer which would later pay dividends. During this time I also worked on quite a noble and inspiring competition in the data science community I fore mentioned. This would pick up speed in mid-February given my new near mastery of image processing. Johns-Hopkins had created a completion for segmenting Nuclei of infectious cells. The approach to this would involve highly technical implementation of Neural Networks called U-Nets, essentially the CNN I was working on at the time connected to its reverse to take an image as input, manipulate it, and output a new image based on past hand created data. Out of everything I had done this would challenge me the most, but also provide the most inspiration to push on through the failures (application Exceptions). Within the first couple weeks I would spin up a working model and program capable of segmenting the nuclei in question. This model had over 1 billion parameters making it complex and very impressive to myself at the time. The funniest thing to look back on was the training of the network which could only be completed on my MacBook pro I write on now (These models are supposed to run on large computing systems), which would involve 100% CPU usage for nearly 36 hours. I commend this beautiful piece of engineering for holding strong with me through this. When these networks were finally trained the output was astounding. Myself as a “novice” programmer with weeks of experience had successfully managed to create and train a complex system which did successfully segment cancerous cells! Once more I felt as if I was on top of the world and took to writing. I produced an overview of AI and ML as I saw it in hopes of inspiring anyone who was like me just months ago that they can master the subject as well once the veil of the academic community’s whacky symbols and equations was lifted. When it came time to submit my results to John Hopkins I was running a future through my head where I had won the competition amongst the million other contestants, while at the same time thinking I had missed something huge in plain sight. The truth would lye slightly off the middle of these two point towards the prior. I placed in the top 40% of the million contestants, whom mostly consisted of PHds and Graduate students. This was a complete victory for myself and cherished by my family and friends. At this point I had proven to myself that an attitude of focus, continuous curiosity, and belief that whatever can be done, will be done by the one who holds the two prior traits would bring forth the greatest feeling I could imagine and is a path I should continue to follow. Outside of my highest priority pursuits some other developments had begun in the latter half of February. For one I would be starting a new job come the first week of march. I had on nerdy whim applied for a prized position to work at the Apple store in Lansing in December. After an invitation for interview in early February, I had been offered a position with great pay for a college student. This was more of an achievement than I realized at the time, as the apple store recruitment program only hires 5% of applicants they interview because they look for those who can bring excitement and inspire curiosity for customers in the stores. Luckily for me at the time these were two things I was inspired to do with technology so I naturally seemed to fit their mold. This would later bring forth inspiring interpersonal growth and something to keep me grounded. At the same time I was obviously still attending to my final semester of Engineering and sales. On the engineering side my main work was in my capstone project which involved completing an engineering project for an external client, something I was very keen to in my current state, although nobody knew my new skills in CS existed so I would become frustrated I could not directly leverage my knowledge. At the same time my new love of learning a knowledge of so many new things allowed me to fly through both the prior and this semester with ease and straight 4.0s. On the sales side I was involved in a course which essentially looked to turn its attendees into good people capable of displaying great interpersonal skills and compassion for the world around them. Part of this was a requirement to complete a vigorous amount of community service hours throughout the semester. While most students took on the given opportunities such as soup kitchens and food banks; I wanted to do something truly impactful and in line with my current self. One of the new view I had was that anybody is capable of learning and doing quite possibly anything, they just needed the right inspiration at the right time in life. This said I looked for a opportunity to inspire under privileged youth to strive for knowledge as I was now doing. This led me to the Boys and Girls Club of Lansing in the tutor program. This gave me a medium to impart the gifts of curiosity, wonder and learning god had blessed me with on these great kids, with the hope it may help in some way to inspire them to a great life. The following months would prove to be impactful on myself and I hope on my young new scholars.Life would begin to truly pick up in March as I balanced college, a 27hr per week job, 10 hrs per week of volunteering, my research and coding, and now an online course through Stanford. This new course was an in depth overview of the core mathematics of machine learning taught by a world leader in the subject. I had decided to embark on this course because the true math was something the coding over looked and I saw this an interesting and important knowledge. A certification from Stanford was also quite enticing. During my experience with the course I continued my method of iterating problems in my head everywhere I went until they clicked and I could implement them in some way. I also made sure to skip nothing in the course because it was not an obligation I did not want attend, much like some college courses, but a personal choice driven by intense curiosity. To my excitement I was able to quickly grasp the concepts, moving me at a quick pace through the course and allowing me to create models in which I knew both the code and the mathematical technicalities. My walls would become cluttered with notebook pages of mathematical derivations of what I had learned. Amidst the nearly 60 hrs of other obligations I was able to get through the entire Stanford course in a little over three weeks. I was once again more inspired than ever and felt part of the academic community I had come to patronize through my journey. I also received a formal certification from Stanford which was one of the reasons I saw I needed to complete this course, to show that I had knowledge in a field I previously had no formal educational connection with.  During this whole time my days were complete organized chaos, including margins between obligations that hardly allowed for even travel time, only to start again at the crack of dawn the next day. Nearing the end of march, I was involved in everything mentioned before as well as a completely original approach to the financial markets in the form of a Machine Learning program which could create images of stock charts for the coming days. This was yet another project which threw me deeper into the computer science world and would further build on my portfolio of project I had amassed in the past 4 months. Though this project would not lead anywhere specific it would further solidify my belief in myself that I could create original complex computer programs at this point. Though the experience and colleagues at the Apple Store were great, I knew I was not destined for a life in retail store work, and with graduation approaching faster every day I was stuck in the prime time to find an entry-level job. As the calendar turned to April I had made a solid agreement with myself that I was all in for a career in software engineering. Frustration came upon me very quickly as I realized how difficult it would be to prove my worthiness of an entry level job in a field mostly un-related to my sales engineering major. Though I was well equipped, despite my first line of code hitting the screen 5 months ago, the formal recruitment system expects to hire CS majors regardless of the fact that they may actually have less practical experience then I had amassed in my short time. This to me, meant I would have to do 100% more than my inherent competitors for these jobs. This involved me writing detailed summaries of ML mathematics and publishing my programs for the world to see. After receiving near instant rejection from most online applications for companies like Nvidia, Intel, IBM, Amazon, and OpenAI(actually a very nice/inspirational response), I knew I had to get my work in the hands of real people. When the final large engineering career fair came around in April I took a huge leap in ignoring all opportunities which fit my major and going straight to the Computer science fair. Here I targeted many general companies, especially consulting, and would pitch myself by explaining my journey and experience and finally providing them with resources to my work. I would receive much great feedback and invitations to apply to their positions, which I did as soon as I returned home. With my finger crossed the wait was now on.Around the same time I received a message on LinkedIn which would mean much more than it did when I read it. This was a message from a member of the Innovation Center I had offered my support to earlier, asking for some consulting advice on his language learning app in regards to AI. Seth Killian would invite me to an online meeting the weekend in April before my last spring break. With him joining from France over a spotty connection, I would struggle to understand some of his questions which gave me time to think. The conversation he sparked was a mix of an interview and a cry for help, as he was looking for an able bodied co-founder to join him and had promised ML features he did not yet know how to build or even where to start. From a meeting which I had gone into expecting to just happily give my advice I had left with and invitation to join the company with a in person meeting set upon return from Florida the next week and an agenda of ironing out the details of equity and my place in the company. That quickly I was about to become the co-Founder of Lingco Language Labs and embark on an entirely new and unexpected journey. I reluctantly packed my bags for Florida, a trip which I had promised my friends I would join, although I was terrified to step out of my encapsulated learning environment with the fear I would lose my focus and be sucked back into my old college life. Luckily something grand was waiting on the other end of the trip which would pull me back and catapult me into an even deeper learning environment as I was when I started. After making it through a week filled with nearly everything I was trying to run away from in college life, I had made it through seemingly unscathed from what I had feared. Upon arrival back to Michigan I had set my self up with something to inspire me to come back to my work and research. Prior to leaving I had purchased a new computer workstation and a GPU capable of breaking the constraint of long training times on my Macbook. This of course gave me a reason to jump head first back into the world of computer science which I had been “forced” from for the week. Adding on to that I would head into a meeting of the minds with my new Acquaintance, Seth, which would give me a real problem to apply my knowledge to. On the Tuesday evening following the last break I would ever be given for free, we met at the MSU Innovation Center to discuss the next steps of our business relationship. I had prepared detailed questions with regards to equity, my position, and all of the other formalities which seemed should be discussed. To my surprise these questions were answered in the first few exchanges and within minutes we had jumped into a detailed technical conversation about what machine learning and statistical capabilities the product would need. To my surprise I was able to instantly see detailed solutions to the problems which the intelligence of the application wished to solve, which would allow a smooth assimilation into this new world and an instant sense of credibility to my new colleagues. At the time there was also one other member of the team, who would plan to head up marketing. When it came to the end of Seth and my discussion a simple idea of a cap table was mocked up which Included a fair split between founder and co-founders, but the distribution between me and the marketing member set at even did not sit quite well with me. Rather than point this out I would plan to quietly coax Seth into recognizing that this member did not deserve the equity configured on this first whim. This would eventually lead to this member admitting that they did not see that they could contribute enough and simply resigning from the company, leaving me with a larger share but also more distributed responsibilities.Within our first few meetings I would continue to gain the respect of Seth due to my ability to see through the problems at hand and provide solution in the form of code within days of requests. For those who do not know Lingco is a language learning platform meant to be used as a complement to classroom instruction, which adapts to each students needs to dynamically give the students the correct content while providing the teachers with in depth insights. My position would be tasked with fulfilling the requirements of the latter half of the prior sentence. I would not need to truly think of the specific features, as Seth already had, but more so turn them into reality with my previous knowledge(gained over the course of the past few months). In short most of the promised “intelligent” feature had no prior thought to how they would actually be implemented, though the concepts were each taken from an existing app somewhere, something I learned a hallmark of Seth’s innovation. The process would go as follows: Seth would show me the feature he had promised in use by another application, sometimes in a completely different sector; I would try to dig through research to reverse-engineer their method; I would eventually think of my own way to achieve the same result; and finally I would mock up a prototype of the code with next day results. Many times when asked how long this would take I would unintentionally overshoot by weeks, only to deliver in the following days to the amazement of any observer. We had almost nightly meetings throughout March and into April, filled with innovation inspiration. Sometimes we would sidetrack into highly technical discussions, as Seth and everyone we worked with thought I had been coding and working with Machine Learning for years now; something they were truly amazed I had conquered with no formal education. If they had only known that these developments had occurred months ago, I think they may have run for the hills in fear that the terminator was amongst them. Sometimes the infancy of my experience showed only within me, as a topic came into discussion which I had not come across and I had to nod my head and smile while holding on for dear life, trying to keep my credibility. Many times when this came up I would go to the bathroom stall and quickly google the topic in discussion, try to kick my hyper-learning into high gear, and quickly rejoin the conversation with a new state of knowledge. All things with Lingco were not sunshine and rainbows for me though. As we had lost our Marketing/Bus dev member, much of that duty would fall to me because of my Technical Sales experience and previous companies. This involved hours of laboriously ironing out wording for slides, the website text, and helping Seth prepare for Pitch contests. I would sometime feel as if the work I was doing was simply handed off to Seth, who got most of the attention. While the attention to him was well deserved, this was not what I had signed up for as I had hoped to single handily manage the technology while I tried to leave the business side of myself behind. The worked continued to pour in and I started to get more and more frustrated with the content of our nightly meetings, which may have been part of the stress of all of my other responsibilities as well as the work involved with finishing my last academic semester in a few weeks. At the same time a development in the job search realm had occurred. I had received a single interview request from Cognizant Technology Solutions, a company I had visited at the Career fair and had given links to my recent writings and work in AI. I would be given two phone based interviews as the brutal Michigan weather managed to cancel the on campus, in person version. The first phone interview was a technical interview. At first not knowing exactly which position they had targeted me for, I figured it would be a general skill based interview. As it turned out this would be the most terrifying, yet exciting 30 minutes so far. I was greeted by an employee with a “Hello, which [programming] language are you most proficient with?”. After answering “java” I received 30 mins of straight in depth coding knowledge questions. There were no formalities exchanged at the beginning or end. I would, to my surprise once again, answer nearly every question correctly; though in constant fear that the next question may be one of those which I rely on the bathroom stall and my phones internet connection for in other circumstances. Luckily, I managed to pass this with flying colors. The next interview was a “behavioral” interview which was conducted by a much more talkative and charismatic interviewer, who would later become my manager and job mentor. A couple of days later as I walked out of one of my final days of volunteering, I received a call from Cognizant’s HR team telling me the interviewer were very impressed with me and would like to extend me a job. It would take me a few days to learn more about this opportunity, but ultimately it was all I had and I was very impressed that the company had taken me for what I knew and not by what my degree said. This would turn out to benefit us both. The month of April was now flying by between a mix of large capstone project wrapping up, of which I had one in Sales and one in Engineering, a more demanding work schedule at the Apple store, and of course more demands from Lingco, as the theoretical phase began to transfer to the make-it-happen phase in lieu of multiple end-of-year pitch competitions and search for investor funding. I must admit that I felt overwhelmed at many points during this month, as I strung together my days, along with my cooking and exercise routines, with minute to minute precision which would fall apart if anything else inserted itself in these blocks of time. All of this along with fading inspiration with Lingco due to realization through the design process of the limitation of entering the Educational space and the talk from Seth of us turning this into a full career in lieu of my newly accepted Job offer, had begun to hamper the happiness which I had built over the past 9 months. Along with this Lingco was accepted to appear as a presenter at the large Collision Conference in New Orleans the second week of May, something that at first excited me but now occupied the rest of the week following my graduation in which I would have preferred to decompress. This had all allowed me to subconsciously start to carry an onset of disbelief in the whole concept, which to this day I do not know if it was valid. Deep into this whirlwind of a month a simple request from Seth sent me over the edge which was so menial that I cannot remember it in fullness. None the less for all of the reasons stated above this provoked me to put together a resignation message and meeting to Seth in a very respectful manner. To be completely transparent, at the time my intentions were to completely severe my ties with the company, which may have been an emotion filled errata of the time when looking back. The results turned out to be much less extreme than I had imagined and the handling of this by Seth speaks to his great potential as a company leader. We met that day prior to the interview for the accelerator program we had hoped to be accepted for that summer. I had expected him to be defensive as me leaving the company threatened its very existence, due to the plans for high tech features which only existed in my head at the time. Rather than get upset or beg me to stay, he very diplomatically asked me if up to me where do I want to see myself in the company. The ball in my court now, I felt obligated to negotiate a new understanding rather than simply leaving due to the instant respect I gained for his understanding. This would allow me, while losing some equity, to define a fully technical role in which I was responsible for basically all of the Research and development for the platform’s features and would not be required to drop everything else and make this my full time job. I would no longer be a co-founder, but would hold the title for investment purposes. I have yet to see the loss of equity bear any effect on myself, and knowing what experiences staying with Lingco would bring me now, this stalemate would end up a grand victory for all involved. Our meeting ended with a friendly tone still in-tact as we entered our interview, where both of us would act as if nothing had happened 5 minutes ago; in turn leading us to be accepted as a member of the Conquer Accelerator. With one of the heaviest weights, that of which early April’s stresses brought, seeming to be lifted off my shoulders, the happiness and motivation I had before poured back into me giving me the motivation to finish the semester strong. My Capstone project in Engineering required my team of 8 to analyze University HVAC data and propose a plan to save money and fuels. Nearly all of the members but myself and another member named Ian had lost interest due to the boring nature of the problem and did not provide much work. I shared the same view as to the dullness of the problem we had been tasked with, but had been inspired to work with the data beyond the scope of the problem as part of my new love for all scientific endeavors especially those in which I could showcase my programming talents. Though the project required no programming, as none of the other member knew how, I had strived to bring it into the project somehow. This yielded some rather impressive insights which I was able to pull from the data at hand with data science techniques in python. Together with the other Ian, who was an extraordinary leader, we managed to piece together our first semi-technical paper along with a presentation on our proposal. We had a mutual respect for each other’s engineering abilities and were able to concoct a very good final product in meetings between just the two of us. When the final presentation came we received great remarks and the overshoot of our data analysis left us with the remark that we did something very great with such a dull problem in short. Though we did not win the overall prize(the winners actually got interesting problems to work on), we did receive 100% across the board and proved we could add just some shine to something so dull. On the other side of my major, sales, I was working with team members so far away from technology my mind felt numb at times. None the less I had four great team members whom I accompanied to Chicago for a visit to our mock-product we would be selling, logistics. This was a good experience overall and I tried hard to bring technology into the picture which brought me to present the logistics technology portion of our proposal. I felt very comfortable with my content and meetings and practices for the final proposal were a form of relaxation from my other obligations at the time. Upon our final presentation amongst some business executives I would give a good performance along with my team which placed us in second amongst the 10s of other teams participating. This presentation was within one hour of the previous engineering proposal and across the city of east Lansing which gave forth to another busy yet exhilarating day. This day would end of my final semester with a great feeling accomplishment as both project which had included a semesters work achieved great accolades. At the end of each sales pitch the teacher would have each student tell the room where they are off to this summer after college. While most members of the class were not engineers their responses were typical sales jobs, cold-calling and account management, I proudly proclaimed: “I’ll be working at Apple while working with the start-up I am cofounding and them I will be on to start as a Connected & Intelligent Software developer with Cognizant in August.” Slight gasps and ironic chuckles filled the room, giving me approval of the greatness of the future I had created for myself. Within the next couple of weeks, graduation from college would be upon me. I would not carry much excitement for this occasion because what was happening both pre and prior of it seemed to allow the ceremony to be a blip compared to the magnitude of what I was about to accomplish. Before this day would come, I had quite the excursion in the pipeline. The trip with Lingco to New Orleans to exhibit at the Conference, one of the largest start up occasions in the world, would occur the day following my last day of classes. This was a trip which, during my time of doubt with Lingco I had hoped to cancel for myself in exchange for a few days of rest after completion of my last day of college. With these doubts behind me my only apprehension was my normal quirky anxieties of what I would eat and when I could exercise. After completing my last exam on Tuesday of the first week of May 2018, I was rushing home to get ready for my flight to New Orleans early the next morning. Arriving at the airport gave me some odd feelings, as I realized that I was about to spend 3 days with Seth, someone whom I had only recently acquainted and did not yet have complete trust with. We had not talked much over the past few weeks due to the demands of both of our semesters wrapping up, so upon meeting at the gate there was a minor feeling of awkwardness. We were about to embark on a journey which would provide us with the stories that startups should all have along with a newly kindled friendship. Upon arrival to the Big Easy (New Orleans) we would head to the convention center for registration with piles of gear for the booth in our hands. Following this we hunted around for some authentic Louisiana cuisine, finally settling on the restaurant across the street from the conference center which provided us with the crab and catfish we were looking for.  Our next adventure was where the adventure would begin. Because we were somewhat low on funds for the conference we had opted for a low cost AirBnB in the outskirts of the city which promised us the top floor of a house with a small kitchenette and 3 beds. On top of this it turned out this was nearly 30 mins from the conference center which forced us to look for a cheaper form of transportation than Uber. With my love of systems, I quickly figured out the routes for the New Orleans bus system and found we could take a single bus within 1 mile of our home for the next 3 days. When our bus arrived we braced for the journey as we joined a car full of “interesting” folks. When we arrived at our stop, it was pitch black out and our surroundings were far from what we were used to from our sheltered lives. As it turns out this was one of lowest income suburbs of the city, giving way to a walk outside just a tad outside of our comfort zone at 10 o’clock at night. As we walked down the street we were startled by the barks of pitbulls as we trudged along the rugged road, loaded down with all of our gear. Eventually as we neared our destination we began to joke about what this walk would be like tomorrow as our investor and advisor, a successful financial advisor named Reuben, joined us on this treacherous walk. When we finally arrived at our temporary home, we were greeted by the owner in his boxers and a cutoff t-shirt. {Name} was a character fitting the exact specs of a Louisiana swamp fisherman. He was incredibly inviting, carrying a perfect southern draw, and made us feel welcome in the surprisingly well equipped unit we would be renting. After settling in our next thought was to to search for the nearest grocery store to get some breakfast items for the next morning. With the closets being closed we eyed a Walmart about 1.5 miles away on google maps. Somehow desensitized from our first late night journey, we decided to head out once more. As we neared the Walmart with 1 dark mile behind us, one problem occurred, there was a highly fenced school in our way with a swamp on the side. Feeling ever so adventurous we slide along the swamp through the weeds until we got to where the store was supposed to be. What we found was a massive barrier, with the BACK of the Walmart on the other side. With our only option to jump a fence to a car lot to swing around the front, carrying legal risks, we turned back with a story to tell. Upon arriving back we settled in for a quick sleep with excitement for what the next day would bring. The next two days would bring forth great opportunities for us to talk about our recent innovations, hear some very esteemed speakers, and build a strong bond between Seth, myself, and Reuben who had joined us now. After an early morning trip to the nearby grocery store, we made the hike under the hot New Orleans to the bus stop. Our only obligation that day was an interview between Seth and an independent video caster who’s producer was his mother. Though this carried with it some comedy for us, it allowed us into the well-equipped media area. Following this we would set up our booth and spend the next hours trading off who occupied it while the other went to attend the great talks of the conference. I enjoyed both sides of this immensely, for while at the booth I could finally show others what great things we(I) had done with brining computer intelligence into the classroom. I would also finally receive engaging questions which would lead to the kind of conversation which I adore with founders of other startups. The talks I was able to attend were very inspiring as well, as I got the opportunities to hear from some of the top executives and innovators of companies such as Amazon, Microsoft, Workday, and Investopedia. Many of these talks helped solidify many understandings of the modern state of technology which I was still developing, along with give me inspiration for what was to come and enhance the realization I was blessed to take part in an opportunity beyond that of most other 21 Year Olds. After the first evening we enjoyed a very authentic meal with our investor and advisor as we braced for the journey back to our humble abode. We took him on the normal bus route and to no surprise startled him with the ominous mile walk through the unknown. He would offer to pay for the cabs and Ubers home for the rest of the trip to no surprise. The next morning I would go on a jog with Reuben, in which we gained more familiarity with each other and sparked a friendship. This would be my last day at the conference as I needed to get home the next day to get to my graduation that Saturday. This day was filled with everything I could have hoped for. We had many inspiring conversations, even one where our guest cried because they were a teacher inspired by the change we hoped to bring. Being two of the youngest attendees we were heralded as geniuses multiple times. I was personally called over by two other startups to exchange contact information to work together in the future. In lieu of all of this I had wandered over to the Mckinsey Consulting: “Are you the smartest at Collision?” trivia challenge to try my hand. Though the topic was Women in Business, I managed to statistically answer the most questions correctly and win a $100 airbnb gift card along with two others who tied with me. Fueled by this I was even more vocal in the coming interactions with booth visitors, in hopes of sharing my feeling of hope with everyone around me. One of the highlights of the trip was the opportunity to hear a talk from Stephen Wolfram, the Founder of the Wolfram mathematics language and Wolfram Alpha, the tool which gets every engineer through calculus class homework throughout college. As someone who I think is one of the smartest scientists of our time I was honored to hear him speak on his views on artificial intelligence and how to implement his creation into your next project. To make this even greater I happened to run into him on the conference floor, in which I was able to share a very brief conversation on artificial intelligence and how I was using it. He remarked, “That is quite clever” which gave me formal confirmation I was on the right path. After meeting one of the greatest minds of my generation so far, I finished off the day with more inspiration than ever. It was during this afternoon at the booth that I set up a domain address for my dreamed AI company: MindBuilderAI. To finish off the day we heard closing remarks from Al Gore, whom I can truly only connect with over his push for the funding of the internet back in the ARPANET days. None the less it was a good feeling to be so close to one of our past vice-presidents. That evening I felt inspired to use what I had learned in the Wolfram talk about their api towards our own product. Sitting in my modest bed on the floor I threw together an important new algorithm for our platform, seemingly without thinking. This seemed to bring the whole start-up road show experience together on this final night. The next morning, I quickly said my goodbyes to Seth and Reuben who would be staying the next day and a half as I embarked on my journey to the airport. With my ultimate sense of frugality, I opted to take public transit to the airport the entire way to avoid the $40 cab cost. This involved 2 and a half hours of bus transfers until my exhausted self made it to the airport. Getting on my plane in the nick of time I would get a whole row to myself, perfect for the work I would be inspired to do on my flight. With more inspiration than ever, I read carefully through a pamphlet handed out by an executive of The Economist on the future of Technology. I went through every page, underlining every statistic I deemed important as I outlined how I would make a splash I the future I hoped to shape. With fire in my eyes as the plane touched down and the feeling we get after a successful trip, I felt more ready than ever for what the summer had to come. The following day I rushed back to East Lansing for my graduation ceremony, which just seemed like another day for me. On Saturday, May 6th I would spend my morning working on the algorithm I had dreamed up in my temporary Louisiana bed, being interrupted mid-day to throw on my graduation gown and head to the ceremony. I had not expected much from the ceremony, after hearing talks from people in echelon of the conference speakers. I was surprised however, to get the opportunity to hear from a past graduate who is now a vice-president at Microsoft. After he discussed how MSU had allowed for his career and family to bring him happiness he alluded to his advice for us graduates. This included discussing the formulation of an insatiable curiosity for the world around us. This could not have been said at better time for me, as I had just unlocked this exact mindset from within over my last two semesters. I was excited now, as I walked across the stage in obscurity to everyone but my parents and colleagues, to one day hope to share my journey with the world thanks to this constant, beating curiosity I had awakened.I spent the next day with my family and reflected on the journey I had completed and what it meant for what was to come. Looking back, I had graduated with a 3.5 GPA with a degree in Applied engineering, well above the 2.7 average that many of my friends were part of. Throughout my four years I never truly struggled or even had to stay up to study for more than a few hours. I had also only gone through 3/4s of a whole notebook in all 4 years. My last two semesters, in which I was now academically interested in science and Math I had held a 4.0 in every class, leading me to believe that if I had this inspiration in my earlier, more childish years, I may have been able to hold a 4.0 across the board. I now held immense interest in the courses which during my younger, “frat boy” years, were simple obstacles which I held second to my social life and still maintained good performance. This does bring back some feelings of regret, that I didn’t embrace this information during these years, but also the realization that Universities could benefit from inspiring this interest in students like me. None the less through this reflection I realized that finding interest in these topics on our own account is much more powerful than when it is forced upon us, as it enables us to absorb information at a rate based on our own internal rewards. In short no time is to be spent on the things we wish not to hear, so to the beat of our own drum we choose to absorb the information to the level of dedication we may wish. Armed with this forward thinking mentality I was ready to step foot into the “real world”, starting with a summer which would be filled with more experience than I could ever have known possible.Because my big leap into corporate America would not happen until mid-August, I had a whole summer ahead of me once more. This time rather than sitting through an internship I would be guiding my own ship. I elected to continue working with Apple for the time being with increased hours to keep up with the bills. The immense amount of time and freedom I would have would also allow me to truly focus on my work with Lingco and AI interest as a whole. The irony of the initial tasks that we worked on with Lingco were quite profound given my accelerated career in computer science. With some funding from the accelerator program we had been accepted into we set out to hire an intern for the summer. For these interviews I would lead the technical sections, which was very ironic considering I was trying my hardest to be an interviewee myself in the greater market. What stuck out most to me during these interviews was the fact that candidates from top schools with studies in computer science would struggle with problems that Seth and myself found simple that I had put together. My takeaway from this is that there is an inherent mindset that must be present in any individual who hopes to scale the heights of possibilities in computer science regardless of educational background. In other words CS is not something that can just be taught to a large group deeming them all qualified and ready for the world, but requires an intense problem solving mindset outside of computers and the belief that the answer is always possible. Throughout the month of May I would run on a pretty intense schedule in which I would carve out time to work with the now “team” at Lingco post the hiring of our intern. Typically I would work 5 hour shifts with Apple either from 11-5, or 3-9 with the full time days of 8-5 sprinkled in here in there. On the earliest-late days I would be the first in the Lingco section of the MSU hatch and on the full days I would be the last to leave. At times this schedule did seem grueling, especially when I would use every minute of my apple lunch breaks to continue the algorithms I had worked on prior. The overarching feeling of time wasted would set in during my work hours as I imagined all of the impactful work I could be doing. The silver-lining of this was the fact that I had 5- 8 hours with my thoughts and great people. In truth many of the great things I would come to achieve would incubate during day dream moments at work at which one of my managers began to call my robot moments as I stared into space. I was hardly bothered by these remarks as I noted that in the same workless moments other team members simply were head down in their phones staring into an even emptier space. Likewise, the moments that were not spent in this beautiful state, were spent interacting with my eclectic group of colleagues who were as curious as they were friendly. This would allow me to pull myself out of the abstracted world of math and science and into the raw beauty of humanity.  This was true as well in interactions with customers of whom I would hope to inspire and lift up as much as I could. This would naturally boost my effectiveness as an apple sales member I would find. In my research with Lingco and personal projects my creative mind was allowed to run through a field of infinite distance it seemed. As requirements came in for the intelligent partitions of the Lingco system my mind would instantly dart about until some brand new way of achieving the solution would surface and seem so obvious to me at that time. This included a wide range of algorithms and applications of AI that had a truly new and creative flare to them due to my lack of conventional education in the fields. I very much enjoyed the stage of writing the mathematics and algorithm before creating the code because it truly felt like a blank canvas in which the art would become the equations and flow that would sit on those papers forever. The next step of would be to create the code which at this point seemed to take no effort for me. I had reached the point I believe every programmer should before they enter industry, having the ability to write code without thinking about the syntax or how to do something in the language but rather using it as a tool to express the overarching algorithm with all attention focused accordingly. I like to compare this to writing an essay in a native language, we write without thinking how to spell or where punctuation should be and simply flow through an expression of our thoughts as the only objective. Most notably the algorithms I would create would allow for student’s abilities to be predicted based on a very small number of questions (20-25) as well as the ability to model a student’s memory. Seth would bring up these requirements and point to a similar application of the technology. I would typically begin to research how the other application did the similar action and very quickly begin to reverse engineer their algorithms. The end result seemed to always exist with all ethics in-tact, because rather than taking the reverse engineering algorithm I would see through the problem to find an easier and more efficient way to accomplish the goal. I was most proud of my application of Bayes Theorem, which I poured over technical documents online for days to understand, which allowed for all possible states of 500 skills to be dynamically adjusted with a machine learning equation as the student answered questions. The result would show the estimated set of skills that the student likely had. This was one of the most powerful algorithms I would create, but it would be limited due to computational bottlenecks being a problem I would toil with until nearly the end of the year.In the second week of June I would take on a challenge which poked and my growing anxieties, but would yield a new perspective in the end. I visited my family at our Grand Haven, MI cottage for my birthday on June 8th. After spending a wonderful day bouncing around town and catching everyone up on the great advancements I had already made just one month out of college, I was surprised to see two of my best friends sitting on the deck as I arrived back at the cottage. Throughout my last semester I had grown further and further distant from my core group of friends for the simple reason that I did not want to participate in the nightlife activities any longer. I felt conflicted because my dad, in a joy spreading act that he is known for, had secretly been texting my friends to organize this surprise. In all other worlds but the anxious side of my mind this was a grand gesture and a wonderful birthday surprise, but I saw another side as I predicted what would happen next. Rather than the quite night I had hoped for, they would be itching to go out on the town and “celebrate”. I had also become very accustomed to a scheduled early to be early to rise mind set, which was now in jeopardy to me. I had also stopped drinking alcohol months ago which I knew was going to be the theme of the night. As expected the plans were set to hit the town. I was able to buffer the alcohol part in a somewhat embarrassing demand that I drive so that I cannot drink more than 2 drinks. As I observed my actions from the 3rd person, I cannot deny that I felt terrible for how I may be making the people who cared so much about me feel which brought a loom over me for the remainder of the night. The night went on very late and admittedly I enjoyed the company of my pals immensely. The next morning, determined to still take my early hold of the day I sacrificed my well-being for the ability to be up at the typical 6am leaving me feeling almost sick. As I waved goodbye to my friends I felt distressed and physically Ill.As I did then and still do somewhat now, I feel as if I have lost progress and momentum on small adjustments to my routine. This would mean I had a distressful day ahead of me filled with anxiety mostly fueled by the simple fact that I only select for 3 hours. I had to do something to pull myself out of the rut I had awoken into for no true reason. Characteristically I elected to dive into the learning of the most cutting edge AI algorithm that had recently been discovered, GANs. Generative Adversarial Networks are a highly complex form of deep learning which pits two Neural Networks against each other in order to allow a “generator” to generate creative work (Art, Text, etc.) similar to how a human would. At the time this was the cutting edge and a level of complexity I considered expert. In my trouble mind there was no better time to learn this than now because I knew it could propel me out of the rut I had cast myself into. That morning I focused more attention on a great number of research studies and web pages than ever before. Upon leaving Grand Haven that day I was now armed with a solid understanding of the next generation of AI. Upon arrival back at my apartment I thrust myself into the task of building a GAN that could generate art just as they were doing in the labs of Google and the like. After painstakingly amassing a dataset of 15,000 images I set to the task of writing the code to bring it all together. While there were pre-built programs available to create the complex architectures I elected to build mine from scratch. This was mostly because the one thing that I always desire is to understand how everything around me works at the core, especially the code I write and use. Though this would take quite a bit of time to create, the understanding of AI as whole that I gained in every moment could be classified as one of the most important experiences that shaped my future. This added yet another project to my already busy schedule as I continued to work and innovate with apple and Lingco, but the immersion was the most addicting thing I had ever experienced. Eventually, in mid-June I had a working model ready to train. The bottleneck now became my computing power. With these networks designed to run on nearly unlimited cloud servers, my puny graphics card(Nvidia 750ti) didn’t allow for any efficiency. I would venture a guess that this is one of the weakest compute solutions that a GAN had been trained on at the time, but it brought me even deeper into the world of AI and computers as I was determined to optimize until it worked. After learning more than ever about both core AI and computing, I finally had a deeply optimized model running on 4Gb of VRAM(For the geeks out there). This had given me a skill, seldom found in AI, to be able to write algorithms for small systems due to my own lack of power. The results were so-so to start and after weeks of slow training and results I finally started to see what I was working for by the end of June. When I did see my computer begin to create art just as a human, a cold feeling came over me due to what I had found and created. It seemed as if something I and most of the world had only attributed to humans had now been disproved as something that can be accomplished with an equation on a computer. The power of what I had created left me in many moments of deep thought and in a sense confusion on what to do next with it. I elected to continue to go deeper in my understanding of these intense topics and continued to adopt more and more curiosity for nearly everything.As July rolled in I counted down my last days of employment with Apple, with my last day being July 4th. While many people would be down to hear that the festivities of this day will be missed, I was indifferent as it allowed me to stay focused while spending the holiday with my parents after work. There is always a solemn feeling when leaving a job, but the great people who apple hires made sure this would not be a case. In order to show how fun and thankful they were for everyone’s contribution they played a prank on me on the last day in which I was required to count every person who came in the door due to a “malfunctioning auto counter”. This ended with a “jokes on you” moment along with many thanks and a kind send off. What came next was a great period of my life which I deemed my “Interim retirement” before my corporate job started. I would kick off my retired life with the purchase of a car I had been dreaming of for a very long time – a manual BMW 335i XDrive. After finding the perfect car on craigslist by what seemed to be luck I nearly independently put everything in order to buy my first car. After a few small arguments on my inherent need to move fast on things with my parents, I finally garnered their blessing to pull the trigger. One day before a family trip the car was mine. I would need to wait over 10 days to drive it, which to me felt like an eternity. The next 10 days were rather painful for me and really pulled me out of the comfort of my routine. My family and I were attending a family reunion at the Jersey Shore, which required a long car drive to New Jersey trapped in the back of a jeep Cherokee and many days of sitting and doing nothing. At the time and now sitting and doing nothing, or vacation as some call it, was not my cup of tea. I constantly felt like the world outside was pulling ahead of me as I was more or less secluded from what I really wanted to do. Other than these feelings, the trip was a great experience to see and learn about the wide reaches of my Dad’s side of the family, as well as spend quality time with my family in a calm setting. Knowing that my dream car awaited me at home did not help the urge to get back either. Upon arrival home I set on one of my intense missions to pull myself out of the self-created rut. This time I focused my efforts on writing a detailed technical documentation for everything I had created at Lingco up to this point. This included multiple research paper styled chapters on the algorithms and their meanings along with the code associated with them. I am not sure if I loved coding or writing more at this point and I can say this was appoint where I learned my love for technical writing. Outside of Lingco I felt the most at peace I had ever been, as I enjoyed plenty of time to think, long thrilling drives in my car through the country, and a refound hobby for car enthusiasm. After I would leave my day at Lingco, work on some personal projects for some time, I felt as if I truly deserved to relax and find interests outside of tech, a feeling that I may have since lost unfortunately.  The activities with Lingco had heated up during this time as well. With the ending of the accelerator program coming, some demo and pitch events were scheduled for Chicago and Traverse City. The most exciting part of this was the plane rides in Reuben, our advisors, small plane. Because Seth was full-fledged piolet, anywhere we needed to go involved hopping into a private plane and experiencing the thrill of small craft flight. Our first trip to Chicago brought with it more inspiration than ever. We were attending the Final Four Pitch event, which brought student start-ups together for a demo and pitch night. I thoroughly enjoyed finally showing others what we had created and soon would feel even more inspired as the final pitch occurred. Seth provided the pitch I had heard many times to a moderate sized audience of investors and interested individuals. As the judges named who had taken 3rd and 2nd place the feeling of both excitement and possible disillusionment set in as the final winner was decided. As Lingco was announced the crowd cheered and I finally felt that the work I had done was going to proliferate further than my computer. We received our big check on stage and were swarmed by investors for the rest of the night. The next day we had an early meeting with a bigger Chicago based investor, which added fuel to the excitement though no investment was planned. We headed to the airport for an exciting flight back to Michigan. The next few days, Lingco experienced a lot of interest and was teetering on the edge of a big investment. In these moments I felt as if I had made it, that this was going to be my career for the time being. After running the simulations in my head, I had a new feeling of burden setting in as I realized how many people had felt inspired and theoretically depended on us to bring what we promised to the world. This was a new feeling to me which I have now had many more times. None the less it inspired me and helped me finally feel like I fit well into the greater AI innovator community.My retirement would come to a close with a finally pitch an celebratory based plane trip to Traverse City. While this was nothing compared to Chicago, the trip brought with it many fun experiences with new friends in the program and bopping around TC in airport vehicles. As it always seems before leaving any group, this was the time where I just felt I was getting to know and fit into a new community that I would inevitably leave. We all enjoyed plane rides about the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. As we waited in the airport for the next ride it seemed that I was the center of attention as people curiously questioned how I had made it so far in AI in such a short time. I gladly answered and gave them advice on their business strategies and life view. As I left, I felt as if the person I hoped to be was setting in, a unique anomaly which may inspire. In the next coming weeks I would wrap up my onsite duties with Lingco as I prepared to say farewell and traverse into my next chapter, the corporate life. 