As a founder, you rarely have enough time to step back and strategize. Entrepreneurs feel the pressure to execute, often prioritizing daily firefighting over long-term planning. You put your blinders on and stay laser-focused on what’s directly ahead.
But one thing I’ve learned in two years of working on Masters of Scale is that investors and entrepreneurs, at all levels, have a lot to teach one another. Every growth story is full of hard-won, often counterintuitive advice. There’s no one perfect way to scale a business, but there’s a lot to be learned from the challenges that other legendary leaders have faced while building wildly successful companies.
This is why Masters of Scale is partnering with Harvard Business School Online to launch a new, one-time-only, online course called Mastering Growth.
Starting October 9 and running weekly until November 16, 2019, Mastering Growth will equip learners with new, often counterintuitive insights to achieve organizational success at scale. In the first 5 sessions of the course, a renowned Harvard Business School professor will lead students through a case study and illuminate themes and tension points within it — using curated audio from Masters of Scale and wisdom from notable special guests. I’ll then lead the 6th, final session of the course, and dive deeper into theories I’ve introduced in the podcast and my book, Blitzscaling.
The Harvard Business School cases, combined with Masters of Scale episodes, represent a greatest hits of the leading companies of our time — from headline-grabbing superstars like Airbnb, Alibaba, Uber and Netflix to proven and durable compounders of scale and growth like the legendary Barry Diller. Through this first-ever collaborative course, you’ll learn lessons from esteemed entrepreneurs, investors and leaders that you can apply to your own company. 
Mastering Growth will take place via Harvard Business School Online’s real-time, interactive virtual classroom, giving busy founders and leaders a space to discuss key strategic issues from wherever they are in the world.
You can engage in the course in two exclusive ways: as a Wall Participant and an Observer. Here’s a look at both:
Wall Participants engage from a curved video wall that enables them to see their peers situated around the classroom, participate in live, multi-person conversations, and speak directly with faculty and me. This immersive experience is limited to 60 seats and mimics what you would experience in a Harvard Business School classroom.
Observers get a front-row seat to the Wall discussion via livestream, and can share insights with each other through an expert-moderated chat. This experience is limited to 300 learners.
It won’t be recorded, so this is a one-time-only class to experience live. And once the course is filled, it’s filled. So I’d encourage you to apply now.
The life of a leader is busy. It’s hard to find a moment where you can step back and think, and connect with other leaders who are tackling similar challenges. This is your chance — both to learn from legendary Harvard Business School minds and connect with fellow founders and executives. If you want to build the next great company — or take your current company to the next level of scale — join us.
More than 122 million lives saved. Hundreds of millions people lifted out of extreme poverty. Over the course of its existence, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has helped drive massive positive outcomes like that by focusing on what it calls “actionable measurement” – aka a commitment to collecting and analyzing data about its activities and interventions, and then using this information to adapt and refine its efforts.
As Bill Gates noted in the Foundation’s 2013 Annual Letter, the digital revolution has played a key role in increasing the organization’s ability to measure which approaches are working and which aren’t. “Thanks to cell phones, satellites, and cheap sensors,” he wrote, “we can gather and organize data with increasing speed and accuracy.
But it’s not just that the Foundation has been effective at aggregating and analyzing the “whos,” “whats,” “wheres,” “whens,” and “hows” of huge global challenges like childhood mortality. What struck me when reading Melinda Gates’ new book The Moment of Lift, is how committed and adept the Foundation has also been in understanding the "whys" – a question that even the most finely tuned sensors can't always offer much insight into. 
Still, anyone who wants to improve the world at scale knows how important it is to ask why. Until you deeply grasp why people do the things they do, you won't know where the most promising opportunities to introduce new ways of doing things exist.
Or, as Melinda puts it in The Moment of Lift, “If you don’t understand the meaning and beliefs behind a community's practices, you won't present your idea in the context of their values and concerns, and people won't hear you.”

This key principle is one that many would-be change-makers – be they product managers or philanthropists – overlook.
Melinda has been extremely successful in both these roles. In the late 1980s, she began her career at Microsoft as a product manager and helped turn Word, Encarta, and Expedia into consumer mainstays. In 2000, she co-founded The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which has since grown into the world's largest private charitable organization.
The path from “product manager” – and the sense of impersonal authority that title conveys – to “philanthropist” – which can be defined as “lover of humanity,” may seem unlikely. But it makes perfect sense to me. After all, great product managers are typically great user understanders. They’re always looking for more context. They’re always looking for more ways to project themselves into the lives of the people they hope to serve.
When Melinda and Bill started their foundation, their goal was highly ambitious, entrepreneurial in spirit, and also fairly open-ended. As Melinda describes it in The Moment of Lift, they set out to “discover the huge missed ideas that would allow a small investment to spark massive improvement.”
That led them to “go where there was the most harm,” and consequently, The Gates Foundation’s first global initiative involved reducing rates of under-5 mortality in parts of the world where millions of children were dying from diarrhea and other preventable conditions and diseases each year.
But while the Foundation initially believed that increasing distribution of basic vaccines would be the best way to make an impact in this realm, a conversation Melinda had with a young mother in Malawi led to a new realization.
“What about my shot?” the woman asked her, referring to the long-acting birth control injection Depo-Provera. “Why do I have to walk twenty kilometers in this heat to get my shot?”
As a result of this conversation and others, Melinda began to understand how improving access to contraceptives could lead to substantial reductions in under-5 mortality rates. “When women in developing countries space their births by at least three years, each baby is almost twice as likely to survive their first year – and 35 percent more likely to see their fifth birthday,” she writes.
In the years that followed Melinda's encounter with that young mother, she continued making trips to Africa and other developing regions in the world, and listening and learning from the people The Gates Foundation intended to serve. And eventually these conversations led to the huge missed idea that would help guide the Foundation's efforts: Namely, that “if you want to lift up humanity, empower women.”
As Melinda recounts in The Moment of Lift, this fundamental but overlooked truth was at the root of so many of the issues the Foundation had been working on. Reduce childhood deaths? Increase access to contraceptives in countries where death rates are high. Improve agricultural productivity? Make sure researchers working on new seeds and fertilizers talk to female farmers as well as male ones, because the former do much of the agricultural work in developing countries.
“Whenever you include a group that's been excluded, you benefit everyone,” Melinda writes. “And when you’re working globally to include women and girls, who are half of every population, you’re working to benefit all members of every community. Gender equity lifts everyone.”
So while empowering women in pursuit of a more equitable society, with equal rights and equal participation, is obviously the right moral path to pursue, it’s also an economically productive one. Indeed, as Melinda notes, “No country in the last fifty years has emerged from poverty without expanding access to contraceptives.”
Even when your strategy has a clear path to scale, achieving lasting structural doesn't happen by simple decree. Instead, it tends to be an iterative process that hinges on the development and implementation of what Melinda describes as “delivery systems,” or “getting tools to people who need them in ways that encourage people to use them…”
In other words, as much as the Gates Foundation emphasizes scientific research and new breakthrough products, it’s not just enough to develop effective solutions. In addition, even a robust distribution network doesn’t necessarily guarantee success, if that network doesn't actually reach the people you want to reach or engage them in a way that make them receptive to what you're offering.
To get people to adopt new practices, protocols, and tools that are unfamiliar to them, and perhaps even contrary to their existing beliefs and values, you have to be transparent about your intentions. And you have to present your solution in a way that reflects their concerns and desires.
That requires empathy. Indeed, at one point in her book, Melinda talks about the “empathy barriers” that sometimes characterize change-making efforts, where outsiders come to a community with good intentions but show little interest in why the people there do things the way they do, and sometimes don’t even bother to explain why they think something should change.
Sound familiar? While Melinda was writing about development efforts in Senegal, she could just as easily have been talking about Silicon Valley.
Here, entrepreneurs and technologists often believe so strongly that the projects they’re working on will create such positive outcomes for the world that they think everyone else should just step aside and let them do their magic.
When “disruption” is regularly posited as the fastest path to progress, empathy may seem more like a bug than a feature. But as Melinda shows with great clarity and grace in The Moment of Lift, a commitment to empathy has been a defining feature of The Gates Foundation for the last 20 years, and one of the main reasons it has been able to drive such massive improvements in global health and well-being during this time.
Over the next 20 years, the opportunities to pursue change at scale will be vast, as we strive to keep improving global health, mitigate climate change, create new sources of renewable energy, produce enough food for a growing global population, and figure out how to productively implement powerful new technologies like driverless cars, AI, robotics, and synthetic biology. Philanthropists and product managers alike should look to Melinda’s experience for inspiration and guidance.
I believe that Blitzscaling is the most effective way to build the companies of the future. It's what I specialize in as an investor at Greylock. But it's rare that entrepreneurs can blitzscale from day one. It's hard to prioritize speed over capital efficiency when you have no capital. That means bootstrapping is a key part of the start of almost every entrepreneurial story. But what happens when you need to scale? Can you keep bootstrapping your way to scale during the blitzscaling era?
In this latest episode of Masters of Scale, my guest, Mailchimp Founder/CEO Ben Chestnut, helps me explore this question by sharing Mailchimp's journey from neglected side project to $600 million in annual revenue. You'll hear how Mailchimp turned down eager VC backers and rode the waves of cloud computing, social media and “freemium” to build a thriving business without ever taking outside capital. But you'll also hear me wonder whether the company could have been even bigger, sooner, with the right kind of help.
Along the way, you'll learn the touching story of why cigarette smoke and perms are still the smell of business for Ben, how eating Fuddrucker's hamburgers became a symbol of Mailchimp's early success, and why television legend LeVar Burton illustrates the limitations of venture capital.
hat’s the simple, powerful vision that Segovia CEO Michael Faye and his co-founder Paul Niehaus pitched me in 2015, and the reason I was excited to lead their Series A round with a personal impact investment from my foundation.
From their experiences building the innovative nonprofit GiveDirectly together, Michael and Paul learned how transformative money can be for people long on creativity and short on capital. (And as a venture capitalist, I know the same!) But their experiences also taught Michael and Paul how difficult it can be to move money into and around emerging markets. Together with an exceptional team, they set out to make it much easier.
Over the last four years, Segovia has made great progress in making this vision a reality. In addition, it has done so while simultaneously building both an enterprise business and a consumer payments business. Such an undertaking is not for the faint of heart, but the paths to scale in both instances were compelling — so Segovia pursued this opportunity. Now, the core infrastructure the company built is being used in a wide range of use cases, including everything from international agribusinesses working to digitize their supply chains to individual migrants sending money back to their relatives at home.
That’s why I’m excited about the deal Segovia announced this week to accelerate both its enterprise and consumer efforts.
As part of the deal, the enterprise part of Segovia’s business will be acquired by Crown Agent’s Bank, a trusted leader in emerging market payments that has both a rich history and a rapid growth trajectory. CAB and its CEO Albert Maasland are extremely well-aligned with Segovia’s vision. They bring scale, strong relationships throughout Africa, and strengths in areas such as FX and B2B payments services that will perfectly complement Segovia’s world-class tech. Michael will join CAB’s board to work with Albert to fully leverage the synergies between the two organizations.
Meanwhile, Segovia's consumer remittance team, Taptap Send, will be spun out as a separate company. This will enable it to focus on managing its own rapid growth. Taptap aims to slash the cost to individual users when sending money home. So far, so good: Taptap is establishing strong new benchmarks for remittance company growth while focusing on corridors that others have neglected. Moving forward, the team will need to navigate the challenges of explosive growth, including understanding whether and when to “blitzscale.”
I’m proud to have journeyed alongside Michael, Paul and board member Chris Schroeder, who has brought his unique experience and perspective as both a technology executive and emerging market investor and mentor. I am excited to see the next phase of growth for both organizations.
In Silicon Valley, intelligence is both abundant and coveted. Because of this fact, Silicon Valley job interview questions have gotten tougher — and weirder — as interviewers devise queries designed to identify the best of the brightest. Consider, these brainteasers that various companies have asked job candidates in recent years:
How many golf balls can you fit in a school bus?
If you had to paint all the buildings in New York, how much paint would it take?
How do you weigh an elephant without using a weigh machine?
How could you solve humankind’s biggest crisis given $1 billion and a spacecraft?
If you can quickly come up with plausible good answers to these — especially the last one — then I predict you will have a set of very successful interviews!
Compared to the questions above, the interview question I pose most often to entrepreneurs and job candidates is fairly straightforward — but also more reliably revealing:
Thinking back to a significant project you worked on in the past, what’s the most important thing you’d tell your then-self to do differently?
In asking this question, I’m hoping to find out a number of things about a person. What do they see as the most relevant variables in a given job objective? How do they characterize risk and opportunity? How do they measure improvement?
In other words, I’m not just looking for insights into what they learned. I’m interested in understanding how they learn. How do they conceptualize their takeaways from the experience? How do they communicate them to others? Are they what I call an “explicit learner”?
Along with sheer intelligence, grit and creativity are other key characteristics employers and recruiters seek out in Silicon Valley. These are highly valuable traits to have. But what I’ve found in my experience is that truly breakout performers also tend to place an unusually high emphasis on improving their capabilities and performance over time. They’re infinitely curious individuals who always want to read one more book on a subject, conduct one more experiment or test, and ask one more question. Coupled with this facet of their personality, they also have an extremely well-developed ability to share the knowledge they acquire with others. They’re explicit learners.Our capacity to learn is a foundational characteristic of humanity. Other species possess this capacity to some extent as well — but there’s no such thing as dolphin kindergarten. Humans are such devoted learners we organize the first 18 years of our lives around immersive obligatory learning in many countries. And many people make systematic learning — aka formal education — their primary pursuit for even longer than that.
But formal education is just one kind of human learning, and not always the most important one. When I think of learning, I think of it as the acquisition of skills or knowledge with a deliberate orientation toward improvement. It starts with experience or study, but also demands reflection, subsequent action, and assessment. The goal is not just to know more things, or enjoy a variety of different pastimes. The goal is to systematically prepare yourself for future opportunities; to increase your ability to successfully adapt to both anticipated and unforeseen challenges; to better understand when to make decisions and what variables you should consider before making them.
Obviously, people learn in many different ways. You can learn formally or informally. In groups or alone. Intentionally or intuitively. In work settings, I’m most apt to look for people who incorporate learning into their lives in a deliberate, persistent, and explicit way simply because I believe that individuals who’ve developed habits that make learning central to how they interact with the world are more likely to learn more than those who don’t embrace learning so intentionally.
Airbnb’s co-founder and CEO Brian Chesky is a good example of this kind of explicit learner. I remember the first time we did a radio appearance together, he immediately turned to me after we had finished and said, “What could I have done better?”
Any time I ask Brian similar question about some aspect of his career or past performance, he always has a well-considered answer to share — because thinking about the world in this way is a habit to him.
Like all explicit learners, Brian understands that while consciously asking questions and gathering data is one aspect of explicit learning, another key part of it involves reflecting on whatever information and feedback you’ve collected, and then synthesizing it into some illuminating way.
And this is ultimately what I’m looking for when I ask people what they’d tell their former selves to do differently if they had a chance to re-do some past project. Can they present their learning as a compelling story or anecdote, or a memorable aphorism?
The process of doing so is useful for two reasons. First, it turns a private observation or revelation into a shareable asset, which has obvious value in a business setting. The more explicit learners you have on your team, the more you all learn from each other; the value of each individual insight compounds across the organization. Second, the attempt to express what may be a vague or somewhat intuitive notion or revelation into a more explicit aphorism or principle encourages you to think more analytically and discerningly about what you’ve learned. What are the most crucial aspects of the insight? Are there ways to broaden it?
For example, many years ago I invested in a company started by someone I knew in a social context. Let’s call him Bob. While the investment was significant enough that I would have done a reference if the entrepreneur had been someone I was unfamiliar with, I didn’t with Bob — because I assumed I knew him given our interactions in a social context.
But it turns out I knew Bob less well than I thought I did. In reality, he had substance abuse issues and often went completely AWOL for days at a time. This is not a quality you want in a CEO, and especially not in the CEO of a newly launched start-up that needs a steady and vigilant hand steering the ship.
As you might expect, my instinctive takeaway in the wake of this experience was an obvious one: “Don’t do any more business with Bob!”
But that’s not actually a very useful learning because it’s only narrowly applicable. And in thinking about it some more, and trying to formulate a better learning, I arrived at a more broadly useful conclusion. Namely: “Knowing a person in one context doesn’t mean you know them in every context. So if a project or investment would typically require a reference check, and you don’t actually know the person in the relevant context, do a reference check!”
In this way, I learned more than just how to deal with Bob in the future. I learned how to avoid going into business with other potential Bobs.
Inevitably, the reflection and assessment that occurs as you think about how best to express or concretize an insight increases your understanding of it: It’s the old saw about not truly understanding something yourself until you can successfully explain it to someone else.
This, I believe, is why Mark Zuckerberg doesn’t just choose a new learning goal each year, but also publicly shares his efforts to do so and reports on how it turned out. It’s why Bill Gates doesn’t just voraciously read books, but also regularly publishes reviews of them. Through this process, the student becomes the master.
Or to put it in another way, in a contrarian twist on George Bernard Shaw’s well-known aphorism, “Those who teach, can do.”
Which, you may have noticed, is the title of this essay. Or at least it is now.
When I started writing this essay, I called it “My Favorite Interview Question.” But when, in the process of wrapping things up, I decided to challenge Shaw’s famous quote, I also realized I’d learned a punchier way to title it.
And because this is essay-writing, I actually could go back in time, in a manner of speaking, and tell my first-draft self what to do differently!
In the late 1800s, in what's known as the Second Industrial Revolution, multiple major new technologies initiated an era marked by even more rapid transformation than the century that preceded it — especially in the United States. Electrification, railroads, telegraphs, and eventually the automobile all helped unleash unprecedented productivity gains, and thus unprecedented prosperity.
But these and other new technologies of that era didn't just raise standards of living. They also radically transformed how people lived.
Electrification meant people could suddenly do far more at night than they'd ever done before. There was a massive shift from rural living to cities. Railroads and telegraphs enabled new networks of communication and distribution. Skyscrapers concentrated human capital and allowed corporations to take on increasingly sophisticated endeavors.
Overall, life got faster and more connected, and much, much richer with possibilities. These new technologies, in other words, didn't just change how people, goods, or information got from one place to another. They changed how people dreamed about the future. They created new social relations and life patterns. They expanded conceptions about what one might aspire to, what defined a "good life," and how one should achieve meaning or purpose. They re-defined what it means to be human.
Today, we're in the early stages of a similarly massive transformation. Multiple new technologies that get broadly categorized under the label artificial intelligence, or AI, are the animating force in this transition. Over the next several decades, AI will have the kind of economic and cultural impact that electrification, railroads, and the other technologies driving the Second Industrial Revolution had on the world. We'll achieve massive increases in productivity and prosperity. We'll also see massive shifts in how people live and organize their lives.
In the face of such change and uncertainty, it's easy to slip into a dystopian mindset. To see more challenges than opportunities. To lean toward fear rather than hope. With AI, uncharted territories definitely lie ahead. And the effects of this transformation are likely to take place over a much shorter time period than previous technological revolutions. But the best way to confront this fact, I believe, and the risks it implies, is not simply to ignore or resist AI's evolution. Instead, we should rigorously steer toward the best possible outcomes in a thoughtful and deliberate way.
And that's why I'm delighted to be a part of the launch today of Stanford University's new Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence.
The purpose of Stanford HAI is to convene researchers, builders, leaders, and users from across a broad range of disciplines — including philosophy, neuroscience, government, computer science, robotics, and many others — to promote and develop human-centered AI technologies and applications that enhance human productivity and quality of life.
One reason some people tend to view AI through a dystopian lens, I think, is because of how corporations are at the forefront of this realm. Granted, there are a handful of nations, including China, France, Canada, and the U.S., which have undertaken government-funded initiatives to accelerate AI development. But corporations have been at the leading edge of such efforts.
And that leads to concerns that AI's development trajectory will favor approaches, applications, products, and services that prioritize the profitable over whatever works best for humanity.
As someone who views entrepreneurship as a powerful lever to create positive impact at scale, I have a different view. While I believe strong government oversight is a key component to productive, prosperous, and well-managed societies, I also believe that corporations, including those operating on a global scale, can create massive social progress along with the profits that sustain their efforts.
And history bears this out: The gains we've made since the First Industrial Revolution began in England in the mid-1700s are so astounding it's easy to lose sight of them. To illustrate this, for example, we live more than twice as long as most people did then — and yet we can make a 500-mile trip in roughly 1/100th of the time it would have taken in 1750.
Compared to the humans of just a few hundred years ago, in other words, humans today can draw upon an expanding array of technological superpowers to make life more productive and more meaningful. And while governments played a key role in making this era of rapid transformation and human progress possible, by providing social stability and key physical infrastructure, breakthrough innovations like the steam engine, or standardized parts, or the factory assembly line didn't arise out of official government programs or initiatives. They were the work of inventors, entrepreneurs, and corporations in search of profits.
Of course, as much as humanity has achieved over the last few centuries, we've hardly created a utopia here on earth. Whatever prosperity our new productivity has created, we still have the same kinds of inequity, conflict, and injustice that plagued us in eras of lesser abundance.
Our new technologies have also created new challenges like pollution, resource depletion, and climate change. And to achieve the net positive outcomes we now benefit from, government often had to step in to temper capitalism's shortcomings and excesses — via child labor laws and other forms of workplace regulation, consumer protection laws, and more.
So as much as I believe that today's corporations are already leading us toward a new era of rapid productivity gains — and the subsequent increase in quality of life that will arise out of that — I also believe that successfully navigating the shift that is now underway must involve many different stakeholders with the widest possible range of perspectives.
Stanford HAI will be a place for such conversations. While the institute will draw upon Stanford's deep history with Silicon Valley and its most innovative technologists and companies, it will also incorporate the multi-disciplinary viewpoints of policy-makers, legal experts, ethicists, philosophers, economists, and scientists, and ensure that participation is diverse and inclusive in terms of race, gender, and culture. In doing so, it will seek to understand best practices for developing AI technologies that serves humanity in ways that broadly benefit us all.
As chair of Stanford HAI's advisory board, I look forward to the robust discourse it initiates in pursuit of this mission.
And as it officially begins its work today, I want to share one question I will continue to ask myself as AI evolves: What could possibly go right?
This question, of course, stands in counterpoint to the one that has driven much AI discourse in recent years: What could possibly go wrong?
With a technology as powerful and unprecedented as AI is, "What could possibly go wrong?" is obviously a crucial question to ask and thus I know Stanford HAI will keep asking it. And I hope many others do too, especially those who are directly developing this technology.
Whether it's the prospects of mass unemployment or algorithmic bias baked into hiring processes, lending decisions, and more, we need to have the rigorous and even skeptical inquiry from diverse viewpoints that will help us see potential problems, and then either steer away from them before they happen or correct them when they do.
At the same time, I also believe that we mustn't simply view our efforts to navigate to the best possible future through defensive or preventative lenses.
And that's why I ask "What could possibly go right?"
What, in our most wildly optimistic vision, does the world look like when AI is as woven into contemporary life just as seamlessly as electricity is?
How might we use it to create new jobs that are both economically rewarding and personally fulfilling?
Can it drive down the costs of crucial goods and services so much that governments will be able to provide much better safety nets than they ever have before?
How can we best tap AI to create education tools and services that make it possible for every person on the planet to maximize their potential?
Can new AI-driven healthcare devices lead to massive decreases in illness?
Can myriad new forms of emotionally attuned robot companions abolish or at least greatly diminish human loneliness?
My point is not that AI is the magic answer to all humanity's problems — but that it will only be as magic as we dream it can be. Today, some of that dreaming starts at Stanford HAI. I can't wait to see where we go from here.
At this point, almost everyone in the startup world agrees that hiring and culture are important. Whenever these topics arise, it’s almost guaranteed that the discussion will touch on how every Google employee had to interview with Larry and Sergey before receiving an offer, how Zappos offers new employees $1,000 to quit to weed out those who aren’t true believers, and how uber-guru Peter Drucker said, “Culture eats strategy for breakfast.” These are inspiring stories and sound bites, but what they fail to do is explain why hiring and culture are so important, and how to manage them as your startup rapidly scales.
As with other key activities, a blitzscaling company has to evolve its approach to hiring and culture; what worked just fine for a company with 5 employees is not likely to be optimal for a company of 500. As you grow, everything from how you find job candidates to what kinds of employees you hire will have to change. In this environment of constant change—both in personnel and organizational structure—you need to develop a coherent culture the organization and its members can rely on to help guide their actions. Hiring and culture go hand in hand because the primary driver of an organization’s culture is the additive effect of the people it hires. And at the same time, the allure of a strong culture is one of the primary tools to help the organization recruit and motivate its people.
Culture is not destiny. It does, however, shape the environment you will be working in for years or decades to come, so choose wisely. Here are some things you need to think about if you want to build a culture that can scale in lockstep with the company:
Be explicit and specific
A coherent culture needs to be specific, rather than simply an accumulation of agreeable platitudes. For example, Steve Jobs famously said, “A players like to work only with other A players, which means you can’t indulge B players.” It’s a great quote, but saying that your company has a high-performance culture of “A” players doesn’t provide enough useful differentiation. What is an “A” player? Someone who went to the right schools? Worked at the right companies? Can code 10x faster than the average developer? Your culture should attract the talent you want and repel the talent you don’t want. It is better to be loved by a few than liked by a multitude. If your culture doesn’t rule out “A” players who aren’t a good fit, it’s not specific enough.
For example, the two companies I helped start, PayPal and LinkedIn, both had coherent cultures, but were radically different from each other. PayPal was very individualistic, with a lot of emphasis on hiring for high IQ and very little emphasis on hiring for work experience. The company tempo had a frantic pace that tended to be driven by what I’d characterize as “structured panic.” In contrast, LinkedIn’s culture was far more collaborative and patient. We felt that we were seeing something that others didn’t (specifically, the value of a professional social network), and understood that it would take a long time for the world to come around. This meant that we needed to be patient and take multiple shots on goal, while remaining confident that we would eventually succeed. People that fit the PayPal culture tended not to fit the LinkedIn culture, and vice versa.
It’s critical to make sure that this focus on fit doesn’t lead you to create a homogenous, non-inclusive culture. A culture might emphasize high IQ or patience; that’s not the same thing as restricting your hiring to people who have the same background as the founders. Hire people who add to the company’s culture, and who make it easier to hire a diverse workforce at scale.
Be prepared to make tradeoffs
It’s important to note that “bad” cultures can sometimes produce good companies. When it comes to culture, employees ask themselves, “All other things being equal, do I want to keep working here?” The thing is, in most cases, all other things aren’t equal. Many talented people will tolerate a bad culture (i.e., work in an environment in which they’d rather not work) to be part of a winning team. Within Silicon Valley, companies like Oracle, Zynga, Uber, and yes, PayPal have been criticized for their culture, as have companies outside the Valley like Microsoft and Amazon. Those same companies have also defined new industries and created over a trillion dollars in shareholder value.
The ideal, of course, is to build a winning team that people love being on. But the reality is that the pace of blitzscaling sometimes requires trading off employee experience for speed. The key is making these decisions consciously and explicitly, rather than without considering the consequences of the tradeoff. For example, when LinkedIn China was trying to launch an important project, the project leader moved project team into a single hotel so that the team members could work for two weeks at a time without the distractions of everyday life. No one wants to work under such circumstances on a long-basis, but if you’re up front about the tradeoff, they may be willing to do so to achieve a key goal or milestone.
At first, hire generalists over specialists
Frequently, founders are told to focus on building a world-class team. As a result, they seek out experts and specialists. The problem is, specialists tend to be far better suited to mature businesses than startups. Generalists play an important role, even in large companies, but early-stage startups in particular should focus almost entirely on hiring generalists. This doesn’t mean hiring people who lack specific skills or advanced education. “Generalist” isn’t a description of a person’s skills; it’s a description of their capabilities.
Hiring generalists means hiring people who can change directions, refactor priorities, learn something new, and adapt quickly to whatever curveballs the universe throws at them. Part of being a generalist means being aware that trying something new inherently implies making mistakes, and having the resilience to recover rapidly and even more important, learn from those mistakes. A generalist is someone who can do everything from finding a new office to assisting with financing to running partnership negotiations, all the while managing payroll and taking out the trash. A jack (or jill) of all trades is actually a master of adaptability. When you have 10 or fewer people in the organization, everyone has to be a generalist.
Hire for today, worry about tomorrow tomorrow
Another frequent piece of bad advice for early stage startups occurs when well-meaning people tell you to hire employees who can scale with the company. That’s simply wrong. Hiring individual contributors who are great at what they do, but aren’t going to scale into senior roles when the company grows is absolutely fine *if* they’re great at what they do now, what we referred to in our book The Alliance as a tour of duty.
Even if you wanted to, you’re not going to be able to hire people for permanent roles. The team you have now won’t all be with you when you have 10,000+ employees. The senior management team you have now won’t be the same that’s around you when you ring the NYSE bell at your IPO. At LinkedIn, only two of the original 10 employees remain at the company, though the others are enthusiastic and supportive alumni (including me!).
You don’t want to prematurely hire people who are best-suited to the later stages. As the company grows, you’ll be coaching some current employees to take on bigger roles, bringing in new people, and regularly reconfiguring the organization.
Building a strong and productive culture takes work and commitment on the part of the founders, but it is a key success factor for blitzscaling. Blitzscaling means throwing out many of the conventional rules of business; this aggressive approach can leave many wondering what they should and should not do. When your company is doubling or tripling in size every year, a strong culture acts as the centripetal force that maintains strategic and tactical coherence between the many people and initiatives that are driving growth.My old friend Peter Thiel once wrote an essay for the Wall Street Journal, titled “Competition Is for Losers.” Entrepreneurs frequently make the mistake of picking highly competitive markets. I suspect that they fall into this trap because many entrepreneurs come from elite universities where they succeeded by outcompeting a bunch of other smart people on a level playing field.
This may be commendable in the academic world, but this is a brittle strategy for blitzscaling. It’s far better to pick a market where you face no competition (either people don’t understand the market, or you’re a contrarian who defies the conventional wisdom and happens to be right) or, more likely, weak competition.You may be incredibly smart and insightful, but among the billions of people in the world, there are probably hundreds of thousands with comparable skills and capabilities. Don’t compete with them head on; find a valuable opportunity space they’ve overlooked. Often, this comes from a willingness to take risks that others fear, but which you realize are overblown.
When Richard Branson started Virgin Atlantic, he was entering a known and valuable market with weak competition — i.e., other airlines. Branson’s team didn’t focus on outdoing the airlines on their own turf (landing slots and frequent flights). Instead, they focused on making the flying experience delightful and unique — a playing field where the competition was demonstrably weak.
When you dominate your competition, your company may be described as having a monopoly. The term has developed highly negative connotations, conjuring up images of a bullying robber baron using any means possible — legal or illegal — to squash potential competitors. Restraint of trade is rightly illegal. But this distaste for monopolies shouldn’t lead us to conclude that dominant competitors need to be penalized.
You don’t have to make it easy for challengers to copy your playbook, but you have every right to fiercely compete and win. Moreover, innovation and the emergence of new markets renders even the strongest monopoly moot. Microsoft had one of the strongest monopolies in history on desktop software, but it couldn’t block the rise of iOS and Android on mobile phones.
Here’s how to maintain your competitive advantage as you blitzscale.
Use speed as a weapon
As an early-stage startup, your fundamental competitive advantage is speed. That’s why it’s important to prioritize speed over efficiency and scale as quickly as possible. Other advantages include being able to take on a lot of risk (because you don’t have anything to lose) and being willing to go where other people aren’t (because you can survive in very marginal niches).
Play offense
Once you reach what we call the Tribe Stage (10-99 employees), others have probably noticed your pioneering efforts. Once this happens, new entrants may jump in, sensing a “hot space.” Regardless of what you think of the quality of these competitors, they muddy the waters and make it harder for you to break out.
Assuming that the competition has emerged, you can start to develop strategies to beat them. You're not letting your actions be dictated by the competition; by acting, you’re trying to dictate their actions. Part of first-scaler advantage comes from setting the pace and making other people play by your playbook. One way to do this is to scale up faster than they do: raise more, hire more, scale more.
You should also pick and stick to a specific competitive edge. To blitzscale successfully, you need a differentiated hypothesis about the market. It may change along the way, as new data emerges, but you should always have a hypothesis. This means researching the unknowns and finding what scales as quickly as possible. Here, your network can be a key part of your offensive strategy.
Then, play defense
At the next stage, which I call the Village stage (100-999 employees), you’ve made your bet, and now you're wondering if you should double down. As you make these decisions, you need to make sure you’re not drinking your own Kool-Aid. One of the ways I like to generate fresh, objective insight is to ask people, "If we were trying to compete with ourselves, what we would do?" You can also seek outside perspectives, either from an independent board member, or by leveraging the network intelligence of smart people you know.
Until now, your sole focus has been offense. If you don’t have customers, why do you need to worry about retaining them? Now you should ask, “How can we fend off the competition?” Often, the answer is more blitzscaling. Being the first scaler helps you acquire customers, lock in investors, and attract the best talent. Both Yahoo and Excite were search engines from Stanford, but Yahoo’s first-scaler advantage gave it a head start that Excite could never overcome. (Yahoo was eventually overtaken by Google, which changed the game, both with its PageRank technology and its innovative AdWords business model.)
Strengthen your market position
Once you grow beyond the Village stage, establishing a new competitive edge tends to be very difficult. (If you're interested in learning more about blitzscaling within an established company, you may want to read our other essay Blitzscaling Beyond Startups.) Instead, you need to focus on strengthening your existing position. There are several best practices for doing so.
First, you can try to establish a standard. One of the standard Silicon Valley plays is to move from an app to a platform so that you can attract people to build on and to your platform. Salesforce.com’s Force.com ecosystem is a great example of this. Second, you can offer a more complete solution, and try to outflank the competition.Make financial strategy your competitive strategy
Eventually, acquisitions become important, if not essential. You can acquire an innovative technology and team, then feed them with massive resources as they scale. Acquisitions are the biggest offensive and defensive plays in your playbook.
Think about how certain key acquisitions won a major market for their acquirers. Acquiring YouTube allowed Google to recover from its failed Google Video initiative, but it also kept YouTube out of the hands of other potential acquirers. Acquiring Instagram and Whatsapp helped defend Facebook against mobile incursions, but also made Facebook the leader in mobile. Once you’ve become the market leader, you need to play both defense and offense simultaneously.
Blitzscaling is just the beginning of your company's story, not its conclusion. Once you start to blitzscale, it's just as important to keep your competitive edge sharp if you want to build and maintain an enduring market leader.
While the hypergrowth of blitzscaling is often synonymous with the latest high-tech startup from Silicon Valley, blitzscaling isn't limited by geography, industry, or even company size. Blitzscaling is a technique that can also help an established company make the most of a great opportunity. Yet while blitzscaling can be practiced by anyone, it isn't appropriate for everyone.
Blitzscaling isn't a free option. It's costly in a variety of ways, from lower operational efficiency to higher capital expenditure and employee (and founder) burnout. Here's how your company can decide if blitzscaling will work for you.
Is Blitzscaling Right For My Company?
Blitzscaling consists of sacrificing efficiency in order to pursue extremely rapid growth in the face of uncertainty. This implies several key points:
First, blitzscaling fits best with new products and markets that have blockbuster potential. These represent the situations where it is possible (though not easy) to grow from 1 to 1 billion. You can't do that in mature markets, or in new markets that are limited to a small niche. The uncertainty of these new markets drives one of the under-appreciated benefits of blitzscaling: staging your commitment gives you the option to abandon the project if it fails to progress.

A classic big company mistake is to attack a new market at scale right from the beginning. This seems to make sense because a big company appears to have major advantages in resources, brand awareness, and so on. However, trying to scale before achieving product-market fit is a high-risk maneuver which could potentially result in massive losses and little success. Groupon opted for an all-out blitzscaling approach to growth because it thought it had achieved product-market fit with consumers; the problem was that it hadn't achieved the same fit with the local merchants who were providing the deals. When merchants fled the platform, Groupon's growth proved to be unprofitable and unsustainable. Today, Groupon is worth about 1/10th what it was on the day of its IPO, and revenues have been flat for years.
Even successful blitzscalers such as Google have suffered this fate with much-ballyhooed projects like Google Wave and Google+, both of which represented enormous investments that were ultimately unsuccessful. Google felt that they had to launch Google+ to respond to the threat of Facebook, while Google Wave was an attempt to attack Microsoft's email franchise. Both were launched with great fanfare, but failed to win over users. In contrast, Google's push with Android had similar motivations (i.e., responding to the threat of the iPhone), but started as a much smaller effort that was ultimately successful. Blitzscaling requires walking a delicate line between committing too soon (and pursuing the wrong product/market strategy) and committing too late (and falling behind the competition).
Second, the high cost and uncertainty of blitzscaling means that it only makes sense if you have the chance to win a big prize — either an enormous short-term payoff, or a lasting, long-term advantage.
It may be worthwhile to blitzscale if you identify a short but enormously valuable window of opportunity. This tends to happen more in the world of finance — think of the farsighted investors from “The Big Short” who bet against the subprime mortgage market. In 2006, John Paulson raised a $147 million fund to bet against subprime mortgages. The fund generated $17 billion in returns in 2007.
The more common big prize is a lasting, long-term advantage. These advantages, once seized, can generate years or even decades of profits. These advantages can include:
Network Effects: This is the primary — though not the only — justification for blitzscaling. Network effects occur when increased usage of a good or service leads to an increase in its value, which in turn makes it more attractive and this leads to further increases in usage. Social networks such as Facebook or LinkedIn are a clear example of the power of this long-term advantage, as are two-sided marketplaces such as Airbnb or eBay.
Customer Loyalty: While customer loyalty lacks the feedback loop of network effects, it can still confer a strong and lasting advantage. This loyalty can be based on brand loyalty (the classic approach taken by consumer goods), habit and convenience (Amazon is the example par excellence), or legal enforcement (the winners in the shale oil and gas boom relied on signing long-term leases on the mineral rights of key areas such as Bakken Formation in Montana and North Dakota). Customer loyalty can also take the form of being built into regular processes and workflows.
Data/Learning: A final key driver of lasting advantage is your organization's ability to derive key learnings from operating the business. A company that blitzscales ahead of the competition will have more data points from which to learn. This increased data can drive product improvements, which attract more customers, who generate more data to feed back into the start of the loop. Google's search engine is a classic example of this loop. Google built a great search index, but didn't stop there. Google adjusts its search results pages based on what its users do and do not click on. The same applies to its ads. This gives Google a major advantage in delivering relevant results and in maximizing advertising revenue.
In these cases, blitzscaling is essentially a form of long-term investment. You sacrifice efficiency and incur heavy short-term costs in hopes of recouping those expenses (and then some) once you have established your long-term advantage. If you hear people talking about pursuing a “land grab” strategy, but can't explain the source of lasting advantage, close your wallet and consider whether they should be a part of your organization.
Finally, you need to be one of the few or only people who have a key insight into the opportunity that others lack or disagree with. My old friend Peter Thiel famously likes to ask job candidates the question, “What important truth do very few people agree with you on?” This question applies to businesses as well as people. If a large number of players can clearly see the potential of a new market opportunity, know what actions to take to realize that potential, and have the resources to carry out those actions, it is highly likely that a fierce competition will ensue, and highly unlikely that any of the competitors will realize an outstanding return. Even when you're an existing company, there are a lot of startups that are going after the same opportunity, so your chances of success are low. If you're one of 30 companies, your chances of success, all other things being equal, are 3%. And if one of the competitors is already blitzscaling successfully, the only chance to catch them is if they stumble.
Another common misconception, however is that having a truly unique insight eliminates the need for blitzscaling. Your unique advantage is almost certainly temporary. Your own success will draw in competitors, shortening the duration of your window of opportunity. Even the value of enduring market leadership can erode over time. Almost 20 years ago, Microsoft's dominance of the desktop operating system was considered so powerful a monopoly that the Department of Justice sued on antitrust grounds, and the company was ordered to be broken up (this ruling was overturned on appeal). Today, Microsoft still retains over 90% market share of desktop operating systems, but that franchise is less important, thanks to the shift to mobile devices and cloud computing. Microsoft's return to its status as the world's most valuable company has come about because it blitzscaled its new cloud business, not because of the desktop market.
You won't always have a choice whether or not to blitzscale. When a competitor attacks one of your markets and starts to successfully blitzscale, you have to respond in kind or risk conceding the market. This dynamic holds true regardless of whether the blitzscaling competitor is another large company, or more likely, a new startup. Earlier in its history, Airbnb was busy blitzscaling its business in the United States when it suddenly faced a serious challenge in Europe. Rocket Internet, the startup factory run by Germany's Samwer brothers, raised $90 million and hired 400 people to rapidly scale up an “Airbnb of Europe.” At the time, Airbnb had just raised $7 million, and had only 40 employees. This was an existential threat, because a global accommodations business simply doesn't work if it can't offer options in Europe. Airbnb responded by launching its own blitzscaling effort — the company raised more money, opened 10 European offices in less than three months, hired hundreds of European employees, and won the battle.
Assuming that you've decided that blitzscaling makes sense for your company, established companies that try to blitzscale have both advantages and disadvantages over startups. It's critical to be realistic — startups have inherent advantages when it comes to blitzscaling. Blitzscaling is all about speed and risk-taking, and startups are far more nimble, and have far less to lose. Established companies that want to blitzscale need to find major advantages to overcome their inherent disadvantages in speed and risk-taking.
Advantage 1: Scale
This sounds obvious and self-evident, but is actually somewhat unintuitive. The scale that comes with being a large, established player isn't always an advantage for blitzscaling. If a startup can play the same game, scale doesn't provide any inherent advantage unless it is a massive, 10X advantage. For example, when Airbnb was blitzscaling, it was competing with Homeaway, an established player that had much greater scale. However, Homeaway had achieved its scale via a string of 21 acquisitions (before being acquired by Expedia itself), which meant that all of its acquisitions were running on different technology platforms and serving different clienteles. Indeed, Homeaway's scale was actually a disadvantage.
On the other hand, there are some opportunities that you can only tackle if you already have scale. For example, Amazon couldn't have launched Amazon Web Services without achieving massive scale in its datacenter operations. Trying to build that product from scratch, without being able to leverage Amazon's economies of scale and reputation for operational excellence, would have been nearly impossible. Even today, AWS's main competitors come from other scale companies like Microsoft, Google, and IBM.
Advantage 2: Iteration
Another advantage that established companies have is the ability to make multiple blitzscaling attempts. Blitzscaling is a risky strategy, and you might not achieve success on the first try. You need to have enough capital to stay in the game. Microsoft was famed for its ability to iterate its way from cheap knockoff products to market dominance. The first and second versions of Microsoft Windows were unsuccessful attempts to copy Apple's Macintosh operating system; the third version, while inferior to its inspiration, was good enough; and the follow-up versions such as Windows 95 and Windows NT were good enough to allow Microsoft to unleash a marketing blitz that carried them to dominance. Microsoft later repeated this strategy with its Xbox business, which evolved from the Xbox, to the Xbox 360, to today's Xbox One.
To borrow an analogy from sports, you may need to take repeated shots on goal before scoring. Established players have a much easier time financing multiple shots on goal.
Nor is this advantage limited to technology. In the shale oil industry, financial wherewithal played a major role in the success of pioneers like Chesapeake Energy. The late Aubrey McClendon said, “To be able to borrow money for 10 years and ride out boom-and-bust cycles was almost as important an insight as horizontal drilling. If something didn’t work for a little bit of time, we could regroup and find something that did work.”
Advantage 3: Longevity
While the ability to undertake multiple attempts at blitzscaling is an advantage, so is the ability to be patient with a single attempt. Large companies can have longer time horizons than startups, who need to show immediate results to continue raising money. Google often plays this long game with technologies ranging from self-driving cars to a cure for aging. Facebook is also playing the long game with Oculus Rift and virtual reality. The key is knowing when to scale up. Microsoft tried to scale smartphones too early with Windows CE. As it turns out, the modern smartphone only arrived when Moore's Law made mobile CPUs powerful enough, and Apple combined software with capacitative touchscreens, Corning's Gorilla glass, and high-volume Chinese manufacturing to create the iPhone.
Advantage 4: M&A
One final advantage that established players have is the ability to use acquisitions to drive blitzscaling. Acquiring a business that is already blitzscaling (or has the potential to blitzscale) can transform an existing company. Priceline, for example, best known for "name your price" airfares, executed this strategy to perfection when it acquired Booking.com, allowing it to achieve a lasting advantage in the hotel booking market. In 2015, Priceline actually had the highest 10-year return of any stock in the Fortune 500. As with direct blitzscaling, this requires having a rare or unique insight into the market. Had all the players in the travel space known the value of online hotel booking, Priceline wouldn't have been able to afford the Booking.com acquisition. Established players can also use a string of acquisitions to blitzscale. Google used the acquisitions of Android and YouTube to blitzscale to market dominance in two key product categories: smartphones and online video.
Disadvantage 1: Incentives
A major issue that established players face are that the incentives tend to favor cautious expansion, rather than aggressive blitzscaling. Successful companies generally assume that they already have something valuable, which means risk-taking tends to be penalized. If you make the play and fail, you've destroyed a valuable thing. (That's not something a startup faces — a startup is already dead by default.) Companies also face pressures from shareholders, analysts, the press, etc. The thing is, they're not wrong! Similarly, the potential rewards have to be huge to matter. A $10 million opportunity, which a startup might see as a company-making bet, is seen as rounding error by a big company. This is why the common answer is to leave this to startups.
The incentives that drive individual employees can also have a negative impact on blitzscaling attempts inside an established company. The employee or executive who proposes a risky blitzscaling initiative is the one who stands to gain the most (promotions, bonuses, clout, etc.) from its success. In contrast, other employees stand to lose a great deal from that success, especially if the organization has a forced ranking program. And if the initiative is unsuccessful and costs the company a large sum of money, they all bear the cost of failure as well. Is it any wonder that so many bold initiatives are buried by colleagues pointing out all the risks?
Disadvantage 2: Unstaged Commitment
Another (largely self-inflicted) disadvantage for large companies is the inability or unwillingness to stage their investments. This results from internal incentives, which tend to reward managers based on the revenues that they oversee, and thus penalize failure and undervalue growth opportunities. Even a small commitment is just another commitment — the overhead cost is nearly the same — and once a lot of people are involved, you have finite options. Doing a staged commitment means you have to re-litigate the decision at each stage, which makes the overhead costs prohibitive.
Senior managers may also, for ego reasons, prefer splashy announcements and major commitments to small experiments that can be blitzscaled if successful. Larger companies also impose a great deal more managerial overhead, which means that it's harder to justify experiments because the price tag is simply too high. Even Google's famous 20% isn't free — its cost is effectively 20% of Google's payroll.
Disadvantage 3: Public Market Pressure
Finally, established companies that are publicly traded face an additional set of pressures to deliver short-term financial results. Blitzscaling generally requires sacrificing short-term efficiency — and thus financial results — to achieve long-term value creation. Privately-held companies are usually closely-held; this makes it easier to get the major shareholders to agree on a risky, long-term investment. A widely-held public company may face activist shareholders and other such shareholder rebellions if it attempts to carry out a blitzscaling strategy. This could even lead to the worst of possibilities — incurring the initial expense of blitzscaling without the necessary commitment and follow-through to reap the long-term rewards.
With these advantages and disadvantages in mind, there are specific management techniques that large companies can use when they set out to blitzscale.
One productive hack to help your existing company blitzscale is to find ways to leverage people and businesses with prior blitzscaling experience. One obvious play is to partner with a blitzscaling startup. For example, GM responded to Uber's blitzscaling (and the corresponding threat it represents to the market for cars for human drivers) by investing $500 million in Uber's blitzscaling rival, Lyft. A less obvious technique is to leverage venture capitalists. Venture capitalists are keen fans of blitzscaling (and the returns it brings), and if you ask them to invest their money in your project, even if your company is contributing the majority of the funding, they will provide a realistic assessment of your situation. For example, many large companies misprice their own assets. They may overvalue their own advantages, and attempt to blitzscale even if an objective observer would consider the attempt ill-advised. Approaching venture capitalists is a quick way to get a sense of how a market of knowledgeable professionals assess the value of your assets.
Once your blitzscaling project is underway, you will also need to manage it differently than regular projects. Blitzscaling's increased pace and decreased efficiency can seem reckless and wasteful when evaluated against conventional initiatives designed to provide steady growth. As a result, a blitzscaling project needs to be insulated from the rest of the company so that the executive in charge can run it effectively. The classic example is Steve Jobs' approach to managing the original Macintosh team, which had separate offices that were off-limits to regular Apple employees. More recently, Larry Page applied this same technique to Android's team, who worked in separate offices (Google employee badges didn't grant access to Android offices) and adopted different hiring practices. Much the same is true for the PlayStation project at Sony, the Kindle project at Amazon, and the Watson team at IBM.
Blitzscaling is rarely a natural act. It often feels uncomfortable to move so quickly and invest so much, especially if you're an established company and have a standard approach to new projects and initiatives. But when the opportunity is big enough, and the competition fierce enough, it can be the only path to winning. Big players who understand their inherent advantages and disadvantages can successfully use blitzscaling to distance themselves from their competitors and to fend off threatening startup upstarts.
In the early decades of the 20th century, automobility at scale ushered in new patterns of living and a new era of broad-based prosperity in America. For some time now, I’ve believed autonomous vehicles can do the same. So when the opportunity arose last year for Greylock to co-lead the $90 million Series A round in Aurora with Index Ventures, I jumped at the chance.
While the autonomous vehicle industry is still in its infancy, Aurora’s three founders had already established themselves as giants in the field, with each playing key roles at three leading pioneers in the version 1.0 era of autonomous vehicle technology. Chris Urmson, Aurora’s CEO, led the self-driving car team at Alphabet for seven years. Drew Bagnell, Aurora’s CTO, led perception and overall autonomy architecture for Uber’s self-driving vehicle effort. And Sterling Anderson, Aurora’s CPO, led the team at Tesla that delivered Autopilot.
Together, they joined forces to pursue a straightforward but massively important mission: Deliver the benefits of fully autonomous vehicle technology safely, quickly, and broadly. Their goal is to develop Aurora Driver, a full-stack self-driving software system that it will make available to a wide range of OEMs.
The progress Aurora has made in the year since its Series A announcement has been astounding. So much so that the company just announced a major Series B round last week, with $530 million in new investment. Sequoia Capital is leading the round, and Greylock, Index, T. Rowe Price, Amazon, and others are participating as well.
Every epic road trip needs a full tank of gas at the start, and with this latest round of funding, Aurora has that. As Forbes.com pointed out, while Aurora won’t be building physical vehicles like many of its competitors in this space, it’s still “among the best-funded players working to commercialize autonomous vehicle technology.”
That means it has more resources to devote to where it can really add transformative value — designing and testing the software systems that can lead to Level 4 autonomy and higher, and building out all facets of its company as its technology matures. With this new round of funding, Aurora will be able to continue hiring the world-class talent that has put it at the forefront in the Version 2.0 era of autonomous vehicle development.
But as TechCrunch observed, it’s not just the size of this “monster round” that’s notable, but the quality of the investors that the round attracted.
Sequoia’s participation with its largest investment yet in the autonomous vehicle space is confirmation of how Aurora has emerged as the marquee player in just two years since its 2017 founding. T. Rowe Price brings “savvy about macro trends” and long-term thinking. Amazon brings its legendary logistics expertise and focus on delivering great customer experiences.
In the end, it’s the people along for the ride who make a road trip truly memorable. As Aurora scales up to pursue a technology that is likely to play a huge role in how people live and work in the 21st century, it continues to attract great investors with long-term outlooks, key OEMs like Volkswagen and Hyundai, and world-class engineering and operations talent.
And at the helm of it all is Chris Urmson, who has a great vision for how he wants to navigate the uncharted territory that lies ahead for Aurora. While world-class engineering talent is needed to solve all the challenges that autonomous vehicle technology poses, Chris knows that proceeding in a way that also incorporates the highest levels of judiciousness, ethics, and integrity are key to an effort with such transformational impact. Thus, Chris is committed to building breakthrough technologies with the right people, who along with their their engineering, operational, and other talents bring a human-first mindset to their work.
I can’t wait to see where he takes Aurora next.
Since launching the Masters of Scale podcast, I’ve interviewed more than 50 amazing entrepreneurs, and helped them share their experiences and lessons from building iconic companies. Now, for the first time in the history of the podcast, the tables have been turned.
My friend June Cohen, the co-founder of WaitWhat, the company behind Masters of Scale, steps out from the control booth to interview me about *my* entrepreneurial journey. This two-part special episode takes you from my childhood in the Bay Area to my experience blitzscaling companies like PayPal, LinkedIn, and Airbnb as an entrepreneur and investor at Greylock Partners.
You’ll learn how role-playing games like Dungeons and Dragons helped me appreciate the power of helping every person play the part of a hero on an epic journey. You’ll learn why I think software is a powerful tool for moral inquiry. And I’ll share what I learned from the failure of my first startup, SocialNet and how that ultimately led me to co-founding LinkedIn.
We also dive into one of my favorite theories, about “Jedi Tours of Duty.” One of the key insights behind my previous book, The Alliance was: If you want to inspire employees, help them understand how their particular “tour of duty” with the company fits into the arc of their own epic story. Are they a Han Solo, a Luke Skywalker, or a Leia Organa? 
You’ll even hear how Peter Thiel took the very same approach when he recruited me to join PayPal. He convinced me that helping him grow PayPal would be a six-month tour of duty that would help me start LinkedIn. And he was right, though it ended up taking three years, not six months!
One of the reasons that many businesspeople (especially experienced executives) have problems grasping and applying the principles of Blitzscaling is that it requires you to throw out many of the normal rules of business. Careful planning, cautious investment, and courteous service may end up being tossed aside in favor of rapid guesstimates, inefficient capital expenditures, and ignoring angry customers. Why would you ever want to pursue such a risky and unintuitive course of action? In a word, speed.
The objective of Blitzscaling is to achieve “lightning” growth despite the increased risks and costs. The only circumstance under which it makes sense is when, whether for offensive or defensive reasons, speed into the market is the critical success strategy.
The classic offensive reason for Blitzscaling is to achieve a critical mass that confers a lasting competitive advantage. Sometimes, this is simply a matter of economies of scale, as with Amazon or Walmart. Other times, critical mass triggers network effects, as with Uber or Airbnb. It's important not to confuse critical mass with first-mover advantage; rather, it is a first-scaler advantage. Being first only helps if you're also able to achieve critical mass.
Another offensive reason for Blitzscaling is the opportunity to be the first to climb a steep learning curve. Some opportunities, such as self-driving cars, require you to solve hard, complex problems. The more rapidly you scale, the more data you have to drive learning (or train machine learning), which improves your product, making it easier to scale further in the market.
Yet despite these offensive reasons to scale, the most common driver of Blitzscaling is the threat of competition. Without competition, you would still want to achieve critical mass and climb the learning curve, but you might prefer a less risky, more gradual approach to growth. With competition, you have to ask yourself, “Can somebody else realize this opportunity before me?” If the answer is yes, moving faster reduces the risk of competition more than it raises the risk of execution. The more intense the competition, the faster you should try to move.
One of the reasons that startups tend to rely on Blitzscaling is that speed is one of the primary advantages they hold vis a vis large companies. Startups can act quickly to capitalize on the new opportunities created by technological advances. If they dawdle and proceed at the same pace as a big company, they're fighting those companies on an even playing field, which means that the big company's resources will likely confer massive advantage.
The Implications of Blitzscaling. Once you decide to Blitzscale, the key question you need to ask and answer is, “How can we move faster?” This isn't simply a matter of working harder or smarter. It's doing things that other companies normally don't do, or choosing not to do things that they do. For example, one blitzscaling tactic that Uber has employed to speed up engineering hiring is to ask each new hire for the contact information of his or her three smartest engineering friends. Uber then mails each of those contacts an offer letter. Clearly, this is riskier than actually interviewing and evaluating candidates. But it is also clearly faster, and has allowed Uber to grow its engineering team (which is typically a major challenge) at higher rate.
Finance
Raise more money than you need.
Entrepreneurs try to avoid raising more capital than they need. Raising excessive amounts of capital dilutes their stake in the company, and introduces a preference overhang (all that money has to be paid back before the founders and employees get to participate in the upside). Yet when Blitzscaling, raising “excessive” amounts can be an effective technique. The capital increases your optionality—if you need to invest in growth, you can do much more without having to go through the time-consuming process of raising another round. A major raise can also have signalling effects—it helps convince the rest of the world that your company is likely to emerge as the market leader, and can discourage investors from backing additional competitors.
Organization
Be willing to tolerate organizational messiness and unhappiness.
When Blitzscaling, speed is more important than having a “well-run” organization. Under normal circumstances, you should strive for organizational coherence and stability. Chaotic, unstable organizations make employees nervous and hurt morale. But when you're Blitzscaling, you may need to tolerate “bad” management to maintain maximum speed (though you should never tolerate the unethical or illegal).
You may need to reorganize the company three times in a single year, or repeatedly churn through members of your management team. When your organization is growing 300% per year, you might have to promote people before they're ready, and then swap them out if they sink rather than swim. You don't have time to be patient and wait for things to “work out”; you have to act quickly and decisively. There's always a lot of change, and much of it isn't voluntary. You're building the team and company simultaneously. In the interests of speed, you might even surprise or blindside your people to cut down the time required to make and implement important decisions.One common symptom of this messiness is the presence of problems relating to job titles. You don't have time for a careful promotion process. You might either do nothing, and just keep everyone's titles the same even as they fail to reflect organizational progress and importance. Or you might do things that no rational company would do, like deliberately inflating job titles to keep people happy, counting on the ability to correct the situation “later.” Either way, you're taking on organizational risk in exchange for being able to focus efforts wholly on growth.
Culture
Don't set your culture, evolve it.
It's fashionable these days to emphasize the importance of culture. Culture is important, and can be a critical tool for Blitzscaling because it allows executives to drive a cohesive and unified organization. However, especially in the early stages of a startup, it's a mistake to devote substantial resources to defining the culture. You can't set a culture at 10 employees, and expect it to be unaffected by the next 100 employees you hire. Instead, recognize that your culture is going to evolve, and rather than hiring for static fit, hire people you think can add to the culture you're building.
Product
If you're not embarrassed by your initial product, you've launched too late.
It's not that you should strive to produce a bad product. Rather, if you need to choose between getting to the market quickly with an imperfect product, or getting to the market slowly with a “perfect” product, choose the imperfect product nearly every time. Getting to the market fast allows you to start getting the feedback you need to improve the product. Any product that you've carefully refined based on your instincts, rather than real user reactions and data, is likely to be wrong, and will require significant iteration anyways. Speed really matters, and launching early lets you climb the learning curve to a great product faster.
Strategy
Ask for forgiveness, not permission.
When you're a large company with a lot to lose, it may make sense to take the cautious approach of getting every potential stakeholder to sign off your decision (though we doubt this is true in most cases). But when you're a startup, the default outcome is that if you fail to act, you will die. You don't have time to wait for everyone to weigh in, especially when folks are in Asia for a key customer meeting, or are slammed just trying to keep the servers running. As long as the decision doesn't have “below the waterline” implications, have a bias towards action.
Engineering
Invest in throwaway work.
Engineers hate doing throwaway work. Not only is it wasteful, it offends their sense of efficiency. The classic goal is to build your product right the first time, so you only have to build it once. But when you're Blitzscaling, incurring technical debt is the rule, not the exception. To prioritize speed, you might write code that isn't scalable and wait for things to start breaking before you build QA tools and processes. All of these decisions will lead to problems later on, but you might not have a later on if you take too long to build the product, which means that a hack that takes 1/10th the time may be more useful than an elegantly engineered solution, even if it has to be thrown away later.
Marketing
Let success drive your brand, rather than using your brand to drive success.
One of classic rules of marketing is that you only have one chance to make a first impression. On the Internet, that's largely untrue. People discover and rediscover brands and products all the time. What matters is moving quickly to achieve critical mass; success drives the brand. What would real marketing experts say about brands like Google, Facebook, or LinkedIn? “Too confusing. Too generic. Too difficult to say.” Yet because of the success these companies have achieved, their brands have become iconic. How many people realize that Facebook refers to a paper booklet that contains the photographs of incoming college freshmen?
Sales
Hire salespeople for now, even if they aren't scalable.
Entrepreneurs are sometimes advised to avoid hiring salespeople until they are able to secure a VP Sales who can scale the company to $100 million in sales. This is hogwash. The salespeople you need to start Blitzscaling are totally different from the salespeople you'll need at scale. When you're trying to sell your product for the first time, you need aggressive, adaptable salespeople who aren't big on following rules. By the time you've achieved scale, you'll need thorough, process-oriented salespeople who can keep a machine running smoothly. You're not going to find one person who is great at both.

Customer Support
Ignore your customers!
The fundamental rule of customer service has long been, “The customer is always right.” But for many Blitzscaling customers, the key rule is, “Provide whatever service you can as long as it doesn't slow us down...and that may mean no service!” Many Blitzscaling startups will offer email support only, or no support at all, relying on users to find and help each other on discussion forums.
A final word of caution—just because you can Blitzscale doesn't mean that you should. Throwing out the rules doesn't guarantee success any more than following the rules does. In the early days of LinkedIn, we knew that achieving a critical mass of users was going to be a challenge. We had to do a lot of education to get professionals to understand our value proposition. Most didn't realize the power of their networks, and how technology could help them enhance, extend, and leverage them better. One approach, which quite a number of people recommended we follow, was to raise a large amount of venture capital and embark on an aggressive advertising campaign to accelerate user growth. This would be a classic example of Blitzscaling—sacrificing efficiency for growth. But we decided against this strategy; we felt that keeping our burn rate lower would allow us to wait for the market to catch up to our point of view. As we pursued our “slow and steady” strategy, the people who recommended growth warned us that our competitors would leave us behind. We weren't worried and so didn't feel a defensive reason to blitzscale. If the market conditions aren't right for hypergrowth, premature Blitzscaling can kill a company. (Sadly, premature Blitzscaling can sometimes kill a nascent market by “poisoning the well” so dramatically that investors and entrepreneurs avoid the space; WebVan's notorious failure kept most players out of the grocery space for over a decade.)
If taking on additional risk and discomfort doesn't actually confer an advantage, it's better to follow the rules for the time being so that when Blitzscaling does become appropriate, your organization can be efficient, well-maintained, and readier to scale.
All founders need some universal skills to succeed. They need the ability to take bold risks in pursuit of a vision that isn’t self-evident to others. They need the ability to learn (since they’re trying to do something brand-new). And to play a long-term role at their start-up turned scale-up, they need the ability to live with and resolve the inevitable paradoxes of being a founder. When I asked Dropbox founder Drew Houston to look back on his experience, he told me, “I think a lot of entrepreneurs start with a lot of insecurity about what they don’t know. What you want is not to be paralyzed by it, but to harness it—to use that nervous energy to learn and make yourself better. You’ve got to keep your personal learning curve ahead of the company’s growth curve.”
Maintaining a certain humility and a sense of perspective can help you navigate the changes in your role as you blitzscale your company. If you truly want to blitzscale, then speed has to take priority over everything—including your own ego.
There are only three ways to scale yourself: delegation, amplification, and just plain making yourself better.
Can you find, hire, and manage good people, then transfer work over to them so you can tackle the challenges you’re uniquely suited to tackle? Many founders are so talented that they have a hard time letting go of tasks once they start performing them. They often think things like, “Will someone else be able to do this as well as I can?” The answer is almost certainly, “No, especially not at first, but they’ll probably figure it out over time, just like you did.”
Start-ups get off the ground thanks to the individual talent and hard work of founders like Mark Zuckerberg and Brian Chesky, but they blitzscale into giant companies like Facebook and Airbnb because these founders learn how to delegate.
One of the most important aspects of delegation, and often the most challenging for a founder, is to hire an executive and hand off functional leadership. For example, a lot of great founders are product people. Initial product/market fit and success are achieved because of their product instincts. But as the company grows, these founders will almost always need to hire an executive to take over leadership of the product organization—it’s too important to be a founder’s part-time job.

A key technique I use to overcome this challenge is to picture the hire as a specific living, breathing person rather than as a role written down on a piece of paper. When you try to picture an abstract “head of product,” for example, you might have a hard time visualizing this faceless entity doing a better job than you are. But when you picture a particular individual (say, Joe Zadeh of Airbnb), all of a sudden your mind shifts to thinking, “Wow, just imagine how awesome it would be to have someone like this running our product team.” It might be difficult to hire this paragon—executives who are that good are hard to pry loose from their current companies—but it doesn’t hurt to try, and at the least, you’ll have a great reference to which you can compare the people you actually consider hiring.
Rather than delegate work you’re doing to others, can you hire people who amplify the work you do? The goal here isn’t to free you up from your work so that you can do other things; it’s to make the things you do much more impactful. This is actually one of the areas I’ve tried to develop and refine in my own life.
Like many founders and executives, I have an amazing executive assistant, Saida Sapieva, to help me with scheduling and logistics. But I’ve discovered that you can take the concept of amplification much further. For example, I was one of the first start-up leaders in Silicon Valley to borrow the “chief of staff” concept from the realm of politics and established corporations. Unlike a traditional assistant or even a technical assistant, your chief of staff should amplify your business impact: he or she should be a businessperson who can not only make certain decisions for you but also triage the important decisions that you have to make yourself. A chief of staff can also make sure that all the people who want to meet or interact with you are “briefed” in advance so that your time together can be as efficient and effective as possible.
My first chief of staff, Ben Casnocha, was a successful author and entrepreneur before we began working together; my second, David Sanford, had worked with me at LinkedIn and had also been an entrepreneur (and a restaurateur!). It turned out that Ben and David were better at organizing my own life than I was; I’ve become significantly more productive since they started amplifying my efforts. To learn more about the role and value of a chief of staff, I recommend that you read Ben’s essay on the topic, “10,000 Hours with Reid Hoffman,” which you can find on his personal website, Casnocha.com.
Once you begin to appreciate the power of amplification, you can find many ways to scale yourself. For example, one of the things you need to do is to process information about your company, your industry, and the world as a whole. I have a freelance researcher on my team, Brett Bolkowy, who helps me learn new things and answer key questions by finding the best information on any particular topic. Another key team member, Ian Alas, helps me with creative projects like the visual summaries I prepare for my books. The slide shows he created for my book The Start-up of You have been viewed over fifteen million times. Now that’s amplification!
Nor am I unique in this. For example, Mark Zuckerberg has a substantial team to help him manage his social media communications so that when he travels and meets people, he can maximize the impact of his interactions.
Trusted employees, freelancers, or even a team of outside consultants can be your amplifiers. The official nature of the relationship is less important than having assistance that you can trust.
Because your company grows and changes so quickly as you blitzscale, it’s crucial for you to figure out how to make yourself better just as quickly so that you don’t become the bottleneck that holds your company back. As our friend Jerry Chen likes to say, “There are no job descriptions for founders. If the role doesn’t change, there’s something wrong.”

Since you’re going to face new challenges during every stage of blitzscaling, you have to make yourself into a learning machine. My friend Elon Musk is a great example. He dropped out of Stanford’s PhD program in applied physics because he thought he could learn more on his own! He started SpaceX and Tesla by learning literal rocket science and carmaking. So how do you accelerate your learning curve so that you can learn more faster? The key is to stand, as Isaac Newton wrote, “on the shoulders of giants.”
This means talking with other smart people, often, so that you can learn from their successes and failures. It’s usually easier and less painful to learn from another’s mistakes than from your own. When I need to learn about a new subject, I’ll definitely devour some books on the topic, but I almost always supplement this reading by seeking out dialogue with leading experts in the field. Brian Chesky at Airbnb, another amazing learning machine, does something similar, seeking advice from mentors like Sheryl Sandberg and Warren Buffett. Brian told our class at Stanford, “If you find the right source, you don’t have to read everything. I’ve had to learn to seek out the experts. I wanted to learn about safety, so I went to George Tenet, the ex-head of the CIA. Even if you can’t meet the best, you can read about the best.” Brian lives this advice; he got many of his ideas by assiduously poring over biographies of great entrepreneurs like Walt Disney.
Another helpful approach to seeking mentorship is to get help from experts who might be less famous than the Sheryl Sandbergs of the world, but who have faced (and solved) similar issues in the recent past. In an interview for Reid’s Masters of Scale podcast, Dropbox’s Drew Houston described how he tries to learn from fellow entrepreneurs who are on the same journey:
"Talk with other entrepreneurs. Not just famous entrepreneurs, but people who are one year ahead, two years ahead, five years ahead. You learn very different and important things from those kinds of people. It really helps to have a sense of the longer-term arc, because the game changes quietly from phase to phase."
In addition to seeking help on an ad hoc basis, I believe it’s a good idea to be systematic about learning from others. I advise entrepreneurs to have a personal board of advisers or “board of directors” who can proffer advice and help you fill the gaps in your knowledge. For example, I have a set of informal advisers who help me learn about the areas that matter to me, including very specific topics like virality or people management. If you’re serious about someday blitzscaling a company, you should think of your mentors as a board of directors. Regularly report to them on your progress, and ask them how you can do better. Everyone needs feedback. Brian Chesky, for example, likes to say, “I’m shameless about getting feedback.” He and I have a scheduled dinner every month where (among other things) we share what we’ve learned and provide feedback. Leveraging a board like this can help you manage risks and increase the potential upside of your actions.
This may sound like a lot of work, but it’s important to leave yourself time and space for reflection and feedback. It’s easy to get caught up in an endless to-do list and to lose sight of what is important. That’s one of the things I learned from Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg. Mark and Sheryl meet first thing every Monday and at the end of every Friday—no matter how busy they are or what else has come up. The Friday meeting is especially important because it gives them time to look back over the week and reflect on what they’ve learned.
You might feel like you can’t afford to take time out from your busy schedule to make yourself better. After all, you might think, everyone is counting on me. This feeling, while natural, is counterproductive. Netflix CEO Reed Hastings warned our Stanford class, “[When I was running Pure Software,] I felt like investing in me was selfish. I thought, ‘I should be working.’ I was invited to join YPO [Young Presidents’ Organization], but I thought, ‘I can’t take a day off.’ I was too busy chopping wood to sharpen the axe. I should have spent more time with other entrepreneurs. I should have done yoga or meditation. I didn’t understand that by making myself better, I was helping the company, even if I was away from work.” Plus, when you model the behavior of taking the time to improve yourself, you help encourage the rest of the company to develop a culture of learning.
What will be the enduring, market-defining companies of the future? Where will they come from? And what are the modern secrets of Silicon Valley? How do we use those lessons to help every region of both the U.S. and the world build scale industries and economies?
I have tried to address these questions in my latest book Blitzscaling, which is released tomorrow, October 9. I’ve been working on this book for over three years, and along the way, we’ve explored and refined these ideas in a course at Stanford and the Masters of Scale podcast. A lot has happened in the tech industry in the past 36 months, and some of these lessons have helped make the book even more relevant.
Chris Yeh and I wrote Blitzscaling to rectify what seemed like a major oversight. It’s easy to find guidance on how to start a company, but surprisingly difficult to get good ideas on how to scale a company. The books which focused on scaling were mainly concerned with the challenges facing small business owners, rather than the very different challenges of building a global market leader.
This book is for entrepreneurs, intrapreneurs, and entire corporations: those who are creating the future. This book is also for anyone else who wants to understand how certain technologies will scale to change the world, through blitzscaling global companies.
My hope for this book is that its words will serve as a mentor for all the entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs around the world who are trying to make a difference. Blitzscaling is too good a technique to be limited to Silicon Valley and China, and we have too many problems that need to be solved at lightning speed.

If you’re working on such problems, this book can help you in these important efforts.
Each new communications medium — writing, newspapers, radio, television — has both created essential progress and posed new and potentially harmful challenges to society.
The fundamental lesson we need to learn from our history is not that we should halt or reverse innovation, but rather that we need to evolve new technology and its interface with society. Each time in the past that we have invented such technology, we have found new and unique solutions to manage that emerging communications medium to help us create a stronger, better society.
The Challenge of Social Media
Today, that emerging communications medium is social media. Social media connects us, and that has both positive and negative consequences. It surfaces our conflicts and allegiances — both for better and worse. In order to achieve positive progress, we need to shape the evolution of the technology and how we use it rather than simply attempting to restrict it with broad regulation.
For example, in the past few years since Brexit, the US election, and other world-shaping events, people have argued that tech platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube contribute to political turmoil throughout the world. In the United States, progressives argue that a reality television star wouldn't have been elected president without Russian interference on those platforms, stoking calls for antitrust action to break them up. One intelligent call that I disagree with is Tim Wu and his new book “Curse of Bigness.” Conservatives counter that these same social platforms are silencing conservative voices and call for government regulation to ensure that their opinions are heard. Caught in between, social media companies try to constructively engage with both the “right” and the “left” domestically while rooting out foreign influences from antagonistic nations like Russia and Iran. Both of the political perspectives above overlook the underlying problem: We haven't agreed on a set of goals for how social media should impact civil society.
Our polarized environment encourages — and amplifies — partisan conflicts, and this inhibits social progress. We need to collectively debate and then decide how the concepts of free speech and dialogue should evolve and adapt to new technologies like social media. For example, how do we distinguish between opinions that we disagree with, and factually false statements? Simply treating every contrary opinion as “fake news” is a denial of reality, and prevents any possibilities of mutual discovery of truth and agreement. Thus, broad use of the label “fake news” prevents any progress in our discourse. On the other hand, making a false statement usually isn't deemed a crime, which means that we have to make cultural and societal decisions about how to deal with such actions. To do this, we need dialog and reasoning rather than simply shouting into the Twitter void. Until we collectively reconcile these fundamental issues, calling for hasty action is just political posturing to score #trending points or clickbait to drive pageviews. What these flames of outrage generally accomplish is setting our own house on fire.
In my new book, Blitzscaling, I describe the process by which the fastest-moving, most adaptive startups grow into enduring market leaders, and argue for the economic and social benefits of rapid scaling. Scale has trade-offs and negatives, but these are generally heavily outweighed by its benefits and positives, such as innovative products, lower costs, jobs in new industries and — with regard to social media specifically — massively increased communications and information sharing across society. Simply arguing that “big is bad” and “small is good” is catchy but unhelpful. Critics of scale should point to specific problems and solutions, while supporters of scale should point to specific benefits.
While blitzscaling as a strategy is relevant across industries and geographies, it's hard to talk about blitzscaling without also talking about about the current state of social tech companies like Facebook, Twitter and Youtube. For example, some have argued that successful blitzscaling has made Facebook too big, and that we would be better off if the company were broken up into multiple companies, or if the social media landscape had evolved to feature a larger number of smaller social networks instead.
This argument comes in response to real world problems. In the past few years, we have seen antagonistic nation states abuse these platforms to interfere with US and other democratic elections. Domestically, everyone from passionate activists to partisan fame seekers have used these platforms to rally one group, attack another, or both, often with little regard for civility. We are still living with the consequences of this abuse today.
But there are a couple of serious problems with this argument. First, it's not Facebook's size that caused the issues. Size makes a platform attractive to hackers, but it also gives that platform more resources to defend itself. If there were, say, five smaller social networks in place of Facebook, that would probably make the situation far worse, because each would be more vulnerable to attack, and when serious problems arose, it would be harder to track down the bad behavior and figure out how to thwart it. During the past few years, significant political manipulation by foreign operatives occurred in smaller networks like 4Chan as well. Bigness didn't cause that manipulation, and reducing bigness wouldn't have prevented it. Also, it still wouldn't solve the problem of providing a space where people with different opinions could constructively debate various points of view.
Furthermore, restricting the growth of US companies will not and does not restrict the growth of companies in other nations. Consider what would have happened if the leading social network in the United States was the China-based WeChat instead of US-based Facebook or Twitter. Investigating and responding to foreign manipulation would be much more difficult — if not impossible — if the platform in question wasn't operated by an American company. It is substantially more difficult to enforce American laws and cultural norms when a company's primary operations are an ocean away.
There are certainly situations when big is bad. The AT&T monopoly on telephony hampered technological innovation for decades. Without a breakup, we might still be paying $1 per minute to make long-distance calls on our landline phones, rather than connecting with anyone in the world, anytime, using iPhones or Android devices. And growing big does create a greater moral obligation to consider the consequences of a company's behavior; massive scale increases potential negative and positive impact. It's precisely this reason that social media companies should have taken the threat of political manipulation more seriously, more quickly. But I believe that the instances of “big is bad” are substantially outweighed by the instances of “big is good”. The key objective is limiting the problems that come with scale while accelerating the benefits.
Evolving Our Norms, Institutions and Rules
A step change in technology requires a step change in our approach to managing its effects. Instead of proposing to restrict company size or slow feature development, we need to ask, “How do we allow companies to operate a viable business, protect the privacy and personal data of consumers, and make social media a more welcoming place for different opinions and constructive debate?” As we think of potential solutions, we can enter into dialogue with companies like Facebook and Twitter to run experiments and refine those fixes. For example, if we set out to make social media a more welcoming place for different opinions, what would the dashboard for that intervention look like? Would it measure the prevalence of different voices? Would it provide a fact-checking index or score for every news source or article? Those are the kinds of decisions that should be openly discussed and debated. Facebook and others have experimented with early versions of these, and I believe that further iteration and improvement is important. Once the key attributes of a dashboard are agreed upon — through dialogue that represents the breadth and diversity of our society — then questions like “does this require regulation?” can be addressed.
We can never completely eliminate all harm — a rhetorical and useless goal — but we can work with social media companies to both minimize the harm from these attacks and maximize the benefits of this new medium, to create a strong net positive. Together, as a country, we have decided to adopt laws to discourage libel and hate speech. These don’t tell us what to say, but they do inform the words we choose. We set up intelligence agencies to monitor the activities of unfriendly nations, and to defend our infrastructure, including social media companies, against their attacks.
We now need to figure out how to evolve our norms, institutions, and rules for the new media. Market forces do help with this task, as companies in competitive environments respond to customer preferences over time. There will be some new challenges in scale companies with network effects. For example, if a small number of tech companies provide the primary medium of communication and information exchange, then how does the public establish trust with the governance and leadership of that company? Some react immediately to suggest government regulators — but I think that intentional transparency and dialog can establish much better trust both now and in the future than new government bureaucracies. Put another way: would you rather have congress legislating the future shape of technology implemented by an agency, or market forces together with public transparency and discussion?
Social networks, like all new communications mediums, have tremendous potential for good. We shouldn't forget how much these platforms have enriched our lives by allowing us to stay in touch with or reconnect with family and friends. They have also become a powerful platform for connecting with strangers to make an impact in the world. As one example amongst millions, in May of this year, an ordinary couple, Charlotte and Dave Willner, launched a Facebook crowdfunding campaign that raised over $20 million to help the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services (RAICES) to help reunite families being separated at the US-Mexico border. Or consider how Facebook has helped build communities for groups like cancer survivors or parents of autistic children to support each other.
No question, foreign hacking of social media is objectively bad. Yes, isolating ourselves in groups where we only talk with the like-minded is damaging for democracy — but note significantly that this “filter bubble” is not unique to social media: consider talk radio, cable news, and local media monopolies like Sinclair Communications. Yes, sharing information without some reasonable commitments to truth creates many problems. But the solution to these challenges isn't to shut down or dramatically slow the development of the medium. Both individual citizens and their elected representatives should be part of a dialogue about these issues and agree on a set of goals and how to measure our progress towards them. Only then should we discuss how we implement those goals with mechanisms that could range on a continuum from self-regulation and voluntary action, to new federal regulation, to new laws.
Fulfilling the Original Promise of Social Media
Let's remember the original vision of social media: An open society where people are more connected, and where diverse voices can be heard. Early social media was like this: suddenly many people were finding a space to speak in a new open land. Now that land has become a massive city, and so realizing that vision will take more hard work. We will need to make conscious, long-term decisions about how we — individually and collectively — ask the technology companies that operate our social media platforms to encourage truth and civil engagement, while defending us against foreign interference and domestic trolling. This will be a long and never-ending process; Americans have been wrestling with the role of various forms of media since the days we were a British colony. We have successfully integrated each previous example of “new media” into our civil society. While individuals, organizations, and governments still find fault with newspapers, radio, and television, they have long functioned as an integral part of American life — because they improve it. Social media is no different, and I believe that the increased connection and freedom of expression it ultimately brings will be worth the cost and messiness of devising new norms and policies
If software is eating the world, it's using the marketplace model as the fresh cracked pepper to flavor its meal. Services from Uber to Amazon's Mechanical Turk promise to layer clean, systematic APIs on top of messy human interactions for greater efficiency. Yet while economics papers might model human beings as Homo Economicus—a hyper-rational utility maximzer—in the real world, the operative half of the “human cloud” is the “human.” TaskRabbit CEO Stacy Brown-Philpot used the human side of the equation to transform the company's human cloud from a commodity into a community, boosting the business along the way.
In this week's episode of Masters of Scale, Stacy explains how TaskRabbit's original model of competitive bidding —while theoretically efficient — was actually killing the business. By treating Taskers (the people who carry out the gigs on TaskRabbit) as a community of learners — rather than pool of homogeneous labor — the company drastically improved revenue and satisfaction, for both Taskers and their customers. 
You'll learn how Stacy's childhood in Detroit helped her appreciate both the power of community and the importance of giving people the chance to work, how Sheryl Sandberg helped launch Stacy down the path of organizing powerful communities, and how Stacy's time in India helped her become a better manager and leader.  
You'll also hear Stacy tell the inside story of TaskRabbit's transformation, including how an avoidable mistake in team communication nearly derailed the shift to an objectively better business model. We'll be joined by special guest Whitney Johnson of Harvard Business School, who explains why it's important to help every member of your team become a learning machine, by Delashea Strawder and Detroit's Mosaic Youth Theater for a special musical performance, and by Tasker Davette See, who describes the most outrageous task she was ever hired to complete on the TaskRabbit platform.
Simply put, Moore's “law” states that processor speeds, or overall processing power for computers, will double every two years. While there has been some debate about whether or not Moore's Law characterizes advancements we've seen in space technology, and many believe that Moore's Law in computation has slowed, what is not up for debate is the velocity at which space innovation has flourished in the past decade. 
Lead by SpaceX, we've seen great advancements in rocket engineering including reusable rockets. In parallel, we've seen continuous updates to modern sensor technology, communications technology, and compute technology. So too have we achieved critical advancements in space. Applying Moore's Law to space means that not only will launching rockets and satellites into space become cheaper and more frequent, but also that we will soon be able to launch a whole new set of modern satellites with advanced technology, launch them more often, and launch them into low-earth orbit.
Apollo Fusion is building the in-space propulsion system to deploy the next generation of satellites into space. Apollo Fusion’s mission is to help “enable the second space race” with a new satellite propulsion system that delivers 3x more total impulse per kg (or per volume) than existing electric propulsion systems on the market. I am thrilled to have invested in the company and to have joined the board. 
Taken together, the implications here are enormous: In the future, we will be able to frequently and inexpensively launch new satellites for everything from weather to traffic, to natural disasters, to communications. This amplification can have dramatic impact on everything from transportation and shipping, to agriculture and urban planning.
Their first product, the Apollo Constellation Engine (“ACE”) is an electric propulsion system with best-in-class performance at a fraction of the size. ACE is a smaller, lighter, more efficient electric propulsion system. Unique features make ACE up to 3x smaller and lighter per impulse than any other flight system. With major innovations in the cathode, flow system, magnetic lensing, magnetic circuit, thermal radiation, and propellant, ACE offers revolutionary performance, verified by The Aerospace Corporation – a widely respected independent testing lab.
As an investor, I'm always looking for the best early stage teams who have unfair advantages in the interesting sectors in which they are building their companies. And if you are going to make a bet on kick-starting the next space race of satellites, this is the team to bet on. Apollo Fusion is led by two rocket scientists, co-founders Mike Cassidy and Ben Longmier. Mike is a serial entrepreneur of four successful startups and former Vice President at Google as leader of Project Loon, a high-altitude balloon telecommunications product. He has two degrees in Aerospace Engineering from MIT. And Ben is a former professor of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Michigan and founder of an aerospace company which was acquired by Apple. Mike and Ben have recruited a team of domain experts in applied physics, plasma physics, and propellants, in addition to aerospace, electrical, mechanical, software, and nuclear engineering. In fact, the Apollo Fusion team has more than 100 years worth of Hall thruster experience.
I am excited to be a part of the Apollo journey to deploy the next generation of satellites into space.
In 2012, after LinkedIn went public and the size of our global workforce was growing rapidly, our CEO Jeff Weiner convinced Fred Kofman to join our team as Vice President of Leadership and Organizational Development.
Jeff and Fred had been working together since the mid-2000s — when Jeff was a senior executive at Yahoo and Fred was an MIT management professor turned consultant.
At LinkedIn, Fred's job was to help our employees develop into transcendent leaders who integrate their own personal pursuit of meaning into LinkedIn's larger organizational mission to create economic opportunity for every individual in the world. 
While business is often considered a domain where anything goes in pursuit of profits, Fred has long recognized that productive work is how we achieve our sense of self, how we organize our lives, and one of the many ways we attempt to achieve impact.
For this, I call Fred the "high priest of capitalism" and consider him to be the most effective leadership coach I've worked with. He systematically studies how individuals derive a sense of purpose from work and how, consequently, corporations and other organizations should incorporate such values as benevolence, service, and even love into their missions. Because these values help foster the kind of purposeful commitment that leads to greater productivity, they're key components of long-term economic value creation.
While Fred recently completed a very successful tour of duty at LinkedIn, the ideas and principles he developed and advocated for during his time here are now available in his new book, The Meaning Revolution: The Power of Transcendent Leadership.
In Fred's estimation, "capitalism is the alchemical crucible in which humanity transforms its base instincts into gold." In this belief he echoes 18th century economist Adam Smith, who famously opined in The Wealth of Nations that even when a businessman “intends only his own gain,” he is “led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention.”
To succeed over the long term, companies must offer customers real value, and deliver real value to their employees, business partners, shareholders, and other stakeholders as well. Recognizing this concept of service that lies at the heart of capitalism, Fred views the workplace as a supremely humanized place — where the pursuit of meaning and impact do more to determine a company's long-term success than key performance indicators and profit and loss statements.
In light of this dynamic, Fred emphasizes leadership over management, and paradoxically asserts that "a transcendent leader has no followers." Instead, "he or she must be self-effacing to let people connect directly to the mission and the values."
Here's how Fred put it at the Wisdom 2.0 Conference in 2015, describing Jeff Weiner's leadership style at LinkedIn: "There are a lot of leaders that I see as rowing a boat. They're bringing everyone along with them, and saying, 'Come follow me.' But the way I've seen Jeff and other great leaders do it, they'll go and get on a surfboard… They don't say, 'Follow me.' They say, 'Come on this huge wave.'"
In the former vision, everyone's literally in the same boat, doing only what their leader allows them to do. In the latter, everyone's on the same wave and moving in the same direction, but they also have the freedom to improvise and set their own course of action.Note too that it's a "huge wave."
As I've explored in my podcast Masters of Scale and in my forthcoming book, Blitzscaling, companies that define their corporate missions in big, noble, and extremely ambitious terms tend to be the ones that grow fastest, execute most consistently, and become the dominant players in their industries.
Microsoft wants to make people and organizations more productive. Google wants to organize all the world's information. Facebook wants to connect the world. LinkedIn wants to create economic opportunity for every individual in the world. Airbnb wants to help its customers belong anywhere.
When companies commit to service on a global scale, their ambitious and clearly defined missions help attract talented professionals seeking personal fulfillment through work that has real meaning and impact.
Now, of course, we're in the midst of an ongoing dialogue where people are concerned that some tech companies have grown too big, too fast, without sufficiently assuming the obligations that come with their increasing importance in how society functions.
As Mark Zuckerberg showed in his recent two days of testimony before Congress, he clearly recognizes that the great power Facebook now possesses means it must also improve the ways in which it enhances and ensures the wellbeing of its billion-plus users. "We have a responsibility to not just build tools," Zuckerberg said, "But to make sure those tools are used for good."
The dialogue on exactly how to ensure the tech industry assumes responsibilities commensurate with its growing power is only just beginning. In times of great innovation and change, a natural instinct is to try to halt progress through regulation; to urge or even force companies and entrepreneurs to think smaller; to prevent the future by enshrining the past.
Against this backdrop, the approach to business that Fred advocates for in The Meaning Revolution is especially relevant.While the tech industry must actively engage with elected officials, consumers, and other stakeholders to craft solutions that ensure its products and services have a net positive impact on the world, we must also try to preserve, as much as is practical, the free and open conditions that have made the tech industry so generative over the last several decades.
To this end, the tech industry must exhibit high levels of transparency and integrity. And that's why our industry needs more transcendent leaders — leaders who embody trust and integrity in a way that gives employees an inspiring example to model and also leaves space for them to make these values their own.
In the face of greater scrutiny, we also need entrepreneurs and companies who continue to pursue incredibly ambitious goals. While quests to connect the world or organize all the world's information can lead to unanticipated problems, they also create the greatest returns for society. As Fred suggests, such "immortality projects" are what create purpose and commitment, and purpose and commitment are what leads to great productivity.
Fred's new book is his own effort to produce transformation at scale — by sharing many of the ideas and techniques he developed while coaching LinkedIn's executives with a much broader audience.
And while a great leader has no followers, a great book does have readers. In the spirit of capitalism, The Meaning Revolution is now on sale at Amazon. I strongly encourage you to read this timely and profound book. Find inspiration in Fred's insights and actions, then seek out your own sense of purpose and great wave to surf.
I recently had the pleasure of attending an OpenAI event, where a number of academics, government types, and entrepreneurs convened to discuss artificial intelligence. The questions ranged from the changing nature of work, to how AI can play into international relations, to transformation of industries, to what the state-of-the-art is.
Obviously, artificial intelligence is a complex and extremely timely issue, one that inspires a wide range of opinions in people.
In fact, I often describe people's opinions about AI as functioning like either a mirror or a Rorschach Test. In the case of a mirror, a speaker looks at the potential of AI as a reflection of themselves. What would I do if  I had an AI? In the case of a Rorschach Test, a speaker looks at the potential of AI via how they think other people in the world work. What would they do if they had an AI?
Reflections range from Star Trek universes — where robots produce all material needs for all human life — to the kind of dystopias Hollywood more commonly produces. It’s an odd part of life that dystopias and fears sell much better than hopes; I myself tend to be quite optimistic about the future we can create.
And this is part of why I’ve been happy to support OpenAI since its founding. It contributes a critical element to the overall development of AI.
For decades, universities sustained AI research.  Now, simply amazing progress is coming from a set of key company labs — everything from Alpha Zero to image recognition to language processing and more. Most of the researchers who work at these companies are great people — not just smart, but also appropriately concerned about the results of their work on society. Some of these folks I count as close friends, and their contributions to AI will continue to be crucial to the progress we as a society make in this realm.
However, as great as these corporate labs and their leaders are, it’s essential to have counterbalancing institutions as well — like OpenAI, which pairs the inherent liberty of academia with the resources enjoyed by corporate players. All organizations are inevitably beholden to their structure. Corporations, for example, focus on a revenue and profit line, a competitive position, and a strategic plan for growing their economic capabilities.
Like corporations, OpenAI is at the forefront of AI research and has access to massive compute scale. But unlike corporations, OpenAI is a non-profit. Its mission puts humanity first — rather than business goals. And its structure allows it to attract philanthropic support while also providing public accountability.
Because OpenAI is independent from companies and their competition, it can focus on the best outcomes for humanity and society. For example, OpenAI can provide a set of tools for all companies and all countries. It can serve as an independent convener when companies in the industry need to discuss standards or safety issues. It can invest as much in learning, safety, and collaboration as it feels willhelp the development of great AI — with no worries about revenue over cost models.
In short, OpenAI focuses on AI for everyone, and for the world.
Of course, it isn’t just the non-profit structure and the mission that makes OpenAI so valuable. It is essential that it has attracted a set of great people who have decided that this is their mission.When I went to the OpenAI event, I already knew that the people who work there are great technologists on a mission. I already knew that they're focused on how to shape the technology to human benefit. What I learned is that they're also committed to getting many other voices into the conversation, to make these discussions as diverse and inclusive as possible. Attendees included the new minister of AI for Dubai (who is a friend), to academics, to intellectually dedicated investors.
OpenAI is not about open source development — the technology needs to be developed and shaped for the right outcomes and safety. But it is about open benefit to humanity. And like all 501c3s, OpenAI is effectively owned by the public interest. In the same way that the Internet's creators provided a set of open standards and protocols that lots of people could use to develop upon it, OpenAI is giving the world open tools related to AI.
I fund OpenAI because it’s the key research and development organization outside of the dominant commercial platforms. It’s similar to why I spent over a decade on the Mozilla board.
A structure that blends public interest and philanthropy. A mission focused on AI for the entire human ecosystem. Excellent technologists. The unique technical base for general AI tools that are not beholden to any one major commercial platform. A commitment to be in conversation with the world. And that's why I'm increasing my support for OpenAI, because its unique capabilities can also move the entire AI field forwards, both directly and indirectly.
As technologists devoted to improving the world, we want to anticipate trends before they happen. Then we want to help shape them for the best impact on humanity. Sometimes that consists of briefing the public and policymakers — some of which happened at this OpenAI event. Sometimes that consists of creating a key technology safety protocol. OpenAI has the ability to help AI move forward in ways that ultimately benefit all humanity. Like another non-profit I support, the Ethics and Governance of Artificial Intelligence Fund, it functions as a strong role model for how technologists and the tech industry should engage as they pioneer the future of society.
